Philip Pavlovsky, Anna Gamaleya, Svetlana Asriyants, Alexey Tomskiy, Veronika Filyushkina, Dmitry Napalkov, Alexey Sedov,
Pallidal activity in Parkinson’s disease patients with intraoperative dyskinesias,
Clinical Neurophysiology,
Volume 177,
2025,
2110804,
ISSN 1388-2457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinph.2025.2110804.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S138824572500656X)
Abstract: Objective
We aimed to investigate the differences in activity of globus pallidus externus (GPe) and internus (GPi) in Parkinson’s disease (PD) following levodopa uptake in comparison with the unmedicated state.
Methods
We compared single unit activity of the GPe and the GPi of two parkinsonian patients who exhibited levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) during deep brain stimulation surgeries with three unmedicated patients with comparable levodopa response. We focused on discharge rates, firing patterns and oscillatory properties of the neurons.
Results
We observed that the majority of the GPi neurons fired less frequently and regularly following levodopa administration, but no uniform differences were found in the GPe. We found no units oscillating in low beta (12–20 Hz) in either state, but several GPi cells demonstrated oscillatory discharge in 4–5 Hz and 20–30 Hz on medication.
Conclusions
Our findings suggest that the GPi is more uniformly responsive to levodopa than the GPe. They also point towards the plausible need for revisiting the model of beta oscillations’ emergence as a result of synchronized bursting in the STN-GPe-GPi network.
Significance
Our study investigates the effect of dopamine-replacement therapy with levodopa on the GPe and GPi at the single-cell level, contributing to understanding the PD pathophysiology.
Keywords: Globus pallidus; Parkinson’s disease; Levodopa; Single unit activity; Microelectrode recordings

Osmar Pinto Neto, Tatiana Okubo Rocha Pinho,
Grip force variability and deep learning: A cross-sectional study of a novel biomarker for early detection of Parkinson's disease,
NeuroMarkers,
Volume 2, Issue 3,
2025,
100106,
ISSN 2950-5887,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neumar.2025.100106.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2950588725000710)
Abstract: Accurately distinguishing Parkinson’s disease (PD) from healthy aging remains challenging, especially using noninvasive methods. When analyzed with advanced computational methods, grip force variability during simple motor tasks may offer objective biomarkers for reliably distinguishing moderate-stage PD patients from healthy older adults. This study aimed to evaluate whether grip force variability during an isometric 20 % maximal voluntary contraction task, combined with deep neural networks (DNN), can serve as a robust biomarker to differentiate individuals with PD from healthy older adults. This cross-sectional study analyzed grip force data from 26 individuals with PD (Hoehn & Yahr stages 2–3, mean age: 66.6 ± 7.3 years) and 38 healthy older adults (70.6 ± 8.2 years). Participants performed a constant force grip force task under visual feedback and no-feedback conditions. Variability measures included approximate entropy and wavelet-based spectral analyses. A DNN classifier was optimized through rigorous cross-validation and hyperparameter tuning, and performance was evaluated using multiple metrics (accuracy, receiver operating characteristic curve and area under the curve (ROC AUC), sensitivity, and specificity). The results showed that the optimized DNN accurately discriminated PD patients from controls, achieving high accuracy (91.0 %, 95 % confidence interval: 84.3–97.0 %) and ROC AUC (92.2 %, 95 % confidence interval: 83.3–100 %). Significant intergroup differences in grip force variability were identified via multivariate analysis (Wilks' λ = 0.237, F(28,35) = 8.39, P < 0.001). PD patients exhibited significantly reduced approximate entropy (P = 0.002) and decreased normalized wavelet power at 1–4 Hz (P < 0.001, visual feedback condition), but increased power at 8–16 Hz (P = 0.004, no-feedback condition). Therefore, grip force variability measures derived from a simple, low-intensity grip task analyzed using DNN effectively differentiate mid-stage PD patients from healthy older adults. Although these findings highlight potential clinical and remote monitoring applications, further validation in larger cohorts, particularly those with early-stage PD, is needed before considering these biomarkers for early diagnostic purposes.
Keywords: Biomarker; Deep neural networks; Grip force; Machine learning; Parkinson’s disease; Wavelet analysis

Junyu Wang, Yuan Yuan, Ting Xie, Ligong Zhang, Hong Xu, Shu-Cheng Lin, Yong Yang, Dong Zhu, Jie Zhuang,
Optimal dose and type of exercise to improve motor symptoms in adults with Parkinson's disease: A network meta-analysis,
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport,
Volume 28, Issue 4,
2025,
Pages 282-291,
ISSN 1440-2440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsams.2025.01.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1440244025000039)
Abstract: Objectives
This study aimed to evaluate the dose-response relationship between different exercise types and the alleviation of motor symptoms in Parkinson’s Disease patients.
Design
A systematic review and network meta-analysis were conducted to compare the effects of 12 exercise types on motor symptoms in Parkinson’s Disease patients using randomized controlled trials.
Methods
A systematic search was conducted across PubMed, Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science until September 10, 2024. A total of 81 trials involving 4596 patients were included. Mean differences with 95 % credible intervals were calculated, and evidence quality was assessed using Confidence in Network Meta-Analysis. The Minimum Clinically Important Difference was used to assess clinical efficacy.
Results
The optimal exercise dose for overall motor symptom improvement was 1300 MET-min/week (mean difference: −6.07, 95 % credible intervals: −8.10 to −4.01). Dance at 850 MET-min/week provided the greatest improvement (mean difference: −11.18, 95 % credible intervals: −16.01 to −6.22). Significant improvements were seen with doses as low as 60–100 MET-min/week for body weight support training, dance, resistance training, and sensory exercise. The Minimum Clinically Important Difference was achieved with doses exceeding 670 MET-min/week for overall exercise, and at lower doses for specific types: aerobic exercise (1100 MET-min/week), body weight support (420 MET-min/week), and dance (230 MET-min/week).
Conclusions
The optimal exercise dose for alleviating motor symptoms in Parkinson’s Disease patients is 1300 MET-min/week, with dance being most effective at 850 MET-min/week. These findings provide evidence-based recommendations for Parkinson’s Disease management.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Exercise; Motor symptoms; Dose–response relationship; Meta-analysis

Ayiguzhali Yusun, Hong-Mei Wan, Hua-Xian Chen, Mo Sun, Chen-Ning Zhang, Xu-Dong Ding,
Emodin ameliorates dopaminergic neuron loss in the MPP+ induced parkinson’s disease model: significant inhibition of ferroptosis by activating UQCRC1 protein,
Natural Product Research,
2025,
,
ISSN 1478-6419,
https://doi.org/10.1080/14786419.2025.2502155.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1478641925002736)
Abstract: Emodin, a naturally occurring compound derived from anthraquinone, demonstrates notable efficacy in combating oxidative stress, protecting neural tissues, and inhibiting malignant cell proliferation. This bioactive phytochemical has garnered significant scientific attention due to its multifaceted therapeutic potential, particularly in the context of oncological interventions and neurodegenerative disorder management. The neuroprotective capacity of emodin in preventing dopaminergic neuronal demise through ferroptosis modulation requires further exploration. Our experimental approach employed Erastin and MPP+-activated cellular systems to systematically evaluate this anthraquinone’s therapeutic potential in counteracting iron-dependent programmed cell death mechanisms. Experimental data revealed that emodin effectively suppressed iron-dependent cell death through upregulation of mitochondrial complex III component UQCRC1. In MPP+-challenged Parkinsonian models, this compound substantially reduced degeneration of dopamine-producing neurons. Mechanistic investigations demonstrated that ferroptotic pathway activation contributes to MPP+-mediated neurotoxicity, while emodin counteracts this process via UQCRC1-mediated cytoprotection. These findings establish a novel regulatory axis linking UQCRC1 activation with ferroptosis inhibition, proposing emodin as a dual-function agent capable of both attenuating neuronal demise and modulating programmed cell death pathways. The pharmacological profile of emodin suggests clinical potential for intervening in ferroptosis-associated neurodegeneration.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; emodin; UQCRC1; ferroptosis

Shen-Yang Lim, Ai Huey Tan, Azlina Ahmad-Annuar, Njideka Ulunma Okubadejo, Katja Lohmann, Huw R Morris, Tzi Shin Toh, Yi Wen Tay, Lara M Lange, Sara Bandres-Ciga, Ignacio Mata, Jia Nee Foo, Esther Sammler, Joshua Chin Ern Ooi, Alastair J Noyce, Natascha Bahr, Wei Luo, Rajeev Ojha, Andrew B Singleton, Cornelis Blauwendraat, Christine Klein,
Uncovering the genetic basis of Parkinson's disease globally: from discoveries to the clinic,
The Lancet Neurology,
Volume 23, Issue 12,
2024,
Pages 1267-1280,
ISSN 1474-4422,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00378-8.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474442224003788)
Abstract: Summary
Knowledge on the genetic basis of Parkinson's disease has grown tremendously since the discovery of the first monogenic form, caused by a mutation in α-synuclein, and with the subsequent identification of multiple other causative genes and associated loci. Genetic studies provide insights into the phenotypic heterogeneity and global distribution of Parkinson's disease. By shedding light on the underlying biological mechanisms, genetics facilitates the identification of new biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Several clinical trials of genetics-informed therapies are ongoing or imminent. International programmes in populations who have been under-represented in Parkinson's disease genetics research are fostering collaboration and capacity-building, and have already generated novel findings. Many challenges remain for genetics research in these populations, but addressing them provides opportunities to obtain a more complete and equitable understanding of Parkinson's disease globally. These advances facilitate the integration of genetics into the clinic, to improve patient management and personalised medicine.

G. Gimenez-Aparisi, E. Guijarro-Estelles, A. Chornet-Lurbe, M. Diaz-Roman, Dongmei Hao, Guangfei Li, Y. Ye-Lin,
Early detection of Parkinson’s disease based on beta dynamic features and beta-gamma coupling from non-invasive resting state EEG: Influence of the eyes,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 107,
2025,
107868,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2025.107868.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809425003799)
Abstract: Resting state electroencephalography (EEG) has been shown to provide relevant information for detecting neuropathological changes of the brain’s electrical activity in neurodegenerative patients. Studies conducted on local field potential recordings have shown that exaggerated beta oscillations and abnormally high beta-gamma phase amplitude coupling (PAC) are hallmark Parkinson’s disease (PD) signatures. Extracting beta bursts from non-invasive magnetoencephalography has also been found to be feasible, as it provides a better signal-to-noise ratio than electroencephalography and is less affected by volume conduction. It is still unclear whether beta burst dynamic features and beta-gamma PAC from resting state EEG can be used to assess the progress of PD. In the present study, it has been proposed to assess the potential utility of beta burst dynamic and the beta-gamma PAC to discriminate PD patients from healthy subjects, as well as their relationship with clinical symptoms. Resting state EEG data have been analysed in both eyes closed (EC) and open (EO) and reactivity-to-eyes opening (REO) of a public database consisting of 20 healthy and 13 Parkinson patients. Beta burst events from EEG spectrograms were extracted to determine their dynamic features, i.e. burst duration, rate, peak frequency, spectral bandwidth and power as well as the normalized beta-gamma PAC. Permutation test while controlling the family-wise error rate was used to assess statistical significance. The results indicate that REO is more sensitive than EC and EO alone, and also that the higher variability of burst duration is linked to PD, while the lower burst rate is negatively correlated with clinical symptoms. PD patients had a higher periodicity of duration in the left frontal area, and a higher periodicity of peak frequency, spectral bandwidth and power of the bursts in the left central area than healthy subjects, together with a significant positive correlation with clinical symptoms. Beta-gamma PAC not only found abnormalities in the central regions but also in the frontal, fronto-central, parietal and occipital regions, suggesting impaired motor, working memory and visuospatial skills. It was also possible to extract beta burst dynamic features and the beta-gamma PAC from resting state EEG and that these provided reliable PD progress biomarkers. These advances are expected to help clinicians design patient-personalised therapies and improve their quality of life.
Keywords: Resting state electroencephalography; Parkinson; Eyes influence; Beta burst; Phase amplitude coupling; Dynamic features

Rashmi Bhushan, Falguni Goel, Shamsher Singh,
Beyond Dopamine: Novel Therapeutic Pathways for Parkinson's Disease Through Receptor Signaling,
CNS & Neurological Disorders - Drug Targets,
Volume 24, Issue 6,
2025,
Pages 434-451,
ISSN 1871-5273,
https://doi.org/10.2174/0118715273325667241212041540.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1871527325000042)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurological condition characterized by both dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic brain cell loss. Patients with Parkinson's disease have tremors as a result of both motor and non-motor symptoms developing. Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (idiopathic PD) prevalence is increasing in people over 60. The medication L-dopa, which is now on the market, merely relieves symptoms and has several negative effects. In this article, we highlight the therapeutic potential of glucagon-like peptide-1, adenosine A2A, and cannabinoid receptors as attractive targets for enhancing neuroprotection and reducing a variety of motor and non-motor symptoms. Recent research has widened knowledge of new therapeutic targets and detailed cellular mechanisms, providing invaluable insights into the essential roles of cannabinoid receptors, adenosine A2A receptors, and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptors in PD pathogenesis and unique opportunities for drug development for mankind globally.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; dopamine; substania nigra; neuro; receptor signalling; therapeutic approaches

Federica Carrillo, Nicole Piera Palomba, Sara Pietracupa, Laura Ianiro, Giorgio Fortunato, Margherita Degasperi, Tiziana Giloni, Maria Ilenia De Bartolo, Luigi Pavone, Teresa Nutile, Nicola Modugno, Danilo Licastro, Teresa Esposito,
ANKK1, ANKRD50, GRK5, PACSIN1 and VPS8 are novel candidate genes associated with late onset Parkinson's disease: Definition of a novel predictive protocol based on polygenic model of inheritance,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 213,
2025,
106996,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106996.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996125002128)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) represents one of the most frequent neurodegenerative disorders for which genetic diagnosis is still challenging due to the high genetic heterogeneity associated with the disease and to the difficulty in interpreting test results. We have recently reported the identification of rare new gene variants in PD patients that support polygenic contribution to the disease. Here we report the identification of novel candidate PD genes and an exploratory protocol for predictive analysis of PD risk. The study includes the whole exome data of 22 PD families, 300 unrelated familiar PD, 504 unrelated sporadic PD and 664 healthy subjects. Family-based approach identified rare and disrupting variants in 44 candidate PD genes co-inherited by affected relatives. The analysis of the entire cohort discovered a significant excess of rare and deleterious variants in PD patients compared to controls in 7 genes out of the 44 identified in the families. Five of these, known as ANKK1, ANKRD50, GRK5, PACSIN1 and VPS8, were novel candidate PD genes, expressed in human dopaminergic neurons, and involved in signal transduction pathways and in endocytic recycling. In these genes, we identified both rare probably damaging variants, altering protein structure and dynamics, as well as frequent variants associated with PD risk. Moreover, we demonstrated that the co-inheritance of multiple rare variants (≥ 2) in a panel of 37 PD genes selected in this study, may predict disease risk in about 26 % of patients, both familial and sporadic cases, with high specificity (> 92 %; p ≤0.00001). Furthermore, patients carrying multiple rare variants showed higher risk of manifesting dyskinesia induced by levodopa treatment (p = 0.004), severe cognitive impairment (p = 0.009) and an earlier age at onset of the disease (p = 0.01). Despite the still exploratory nature of the study, these data provide novel insights into the genetic of PD and may be relevant for its prediction, diagnosis and treatment.
Keywords: Late onset Parkinson's disease; Whole exome sequencing; Novel candidate genes for Parkinson's disease; Rare variant burden analysis

Rodolfo Tonin, Silvia Ramat, Marina Rinaldi, Silvia Falliano, Federica Feo, Francesca Cardona, Camilla Matassini, Guido Mannaioni, Giulia Grigioni, Luca Caremani, Alessandra Govoni, Maria Luisa Della Bona, Giancarlo la Marca, Renzo Guerrini, Amelia Morrone,
GBA genotype-Parkinson’s phenotype correlation in a cohort of 252 Italian patients from the Tuscany region,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 12,
2025,
100326,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2025.100326.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112525000301)
Abstract: Introduction
heterozygous mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA1), encoding the lysosomal enzyme β-glucocerebrosidase (GCase) are the most common genetic risk factor for Parkinson’s disease (PD). To assess the frequency of GBA1 variants related to PD in a cohort of Tuscany patients and to determine the link between GBA1 variants and motor and non-motor clinical features in PD.
Methods
We screened GCase enzyme activity on Dried Blood Spot using tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and performed sequencing analysis on entire cohort of PD patients by Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technology. Variants were confirmed with Sanger method.
Results
among the 252 PD patients, we detected reduced GCase activity (≤5 μmol/h/L) in 78 (31%). NGS analysis identified 22 carriers of GBA1 variants (8.7%) in whom 14 carried common GBA1 variants currently known to be related to PD (Leu444Pro, Asn370Ser, Glu326Lys, Thr369Met and Asp409His). PD patients who were heterozygouscarriersof pathogenicGBA1variants presented with earlier onset of PD, faster disease progression and a more frequent non-motor symptoms compared to the remaining PD patients without GBA1 mutations.
Conclusions
8.7% of the 252 PD patients carried GBA1 variants at a heterozygous level, and their clinical presentation and progression were more severe compared to other patients within our cohort.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; GBA1 gene; GBA1 gene carrier; GCase activity, GBA1-Parkinson

Christina Criminger, Chad Swank,
Influence of tDCS on Dual-Task Mobility Elements in Individuals with Parkinson's Disease Using 2D Kinematic Analysis Technology,
Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
Volume 101, Issue 12,
2020,
Page e143,
ISSN 0003-9993,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmr.2020.10.053.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0003999320310728)

Frederik Lau, Rebecca Binacchi, Samuele Brugnara, Alba Cumplido-Mayoral, Serena Di Savino, Ihsanullah Khan, Angela Orso, Samuele Sartori, Paola Bellosta, Matthias Carl, Lucia Poggi, Giovanni Provenzano,
Using Single-Cell RNA sequencing with Drosophila, Zebrafish, and mouse models for studying Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease,
Neuroscience,
Volume 573,
2025,
Pages 505-517,
ISSN 0306-4522,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.03.042.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306452225002441)
Abstract: Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease are the most common neurodegenerative diseases, significantly affecting the elderly with no current cure available. With the rapidly aging global population, advancing research on these diseases becomes increasingly critical. Both disorders are often studied using model organisms, which enable researchers to investigate disease phenotypes and their underlying molecular mechanisms. In this review, we critically discuss the strengths and limitations of using Drosophila, zebrafish, and mice as models for Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s research. A focus is the application of single-cell RNA sequencing, which has revolutionized the field by providing novel insights into the cellular and transcriptomic landscapes characterizing these diseases. We assess how combining animal disease modeling with high-throughput sequencing and computational approaches has advanced the field of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease research. Thereby, we highlight the importance of integrative multidisciplinary approaches to further our understanding of disease mechanisms and thus accelerating the development of successful therapeutic interventions.
Keywords: Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; Drosophila; Zebrafish; Mouse; Single-cell RNA sequencing

Zaiwa Wei, Liangxian Li, Xueting Fan, Yafang Tang, Cheng Wei, Yonglian Zeng,
Protective role of Bre1 in mitochondrial function and energy metabolism in Drosophila models of Parkinson's disease,
Free Radical Biology and Medicine,
Volume 240,
2025,
Pages 663-673,
ISSN 0891-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2025.09.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0891584925009645)
Abstract: Background
The second most common cause of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson's disease (PD) can be attributed to mutations in the PINK1 gene, malfunction of the mitochondria is the key pathological mechanism. Bre1 encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase, with the discovery of Bre1's role in repairing mitochondrial damage, further investigation into its implications for PD is warranted.
Methods
We used the PINK1B9 drosophila melanogaster as the PD model. The effects of Bre1 on PD phenotypes were evaluated based on the morphology of the wings and dorsal region, as well as flight ability. Immunostaining of dopaminergic neurons was used to examine neurodegeneration. Transcriptomes were used to detect the pathway directly involved. Mitochondrial structure and function were observed using electron microscopy, ATP detection, and an oxygen consumption assay. The detection of SOD activity and ROS were used to explicit the effects of Bre1 on oxidative stress. To identify the effects of Bre1 on glycolysis and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, we performed Western Blot and RT-PCR.
Results
We discovered that Bre1 overexpression significantly improved the phenotype of PD flies and protected their dopaminergic neurons from degeneration. More significantly, we observed that the overexpression of Bre1 markedly enhanced the respiratory capacity of mitochondrial Complex I and Complex II, elevated ATP levels, reduced ROS levels, and improved mitochondrial structural integrity. The Western Blot results demonstrate a significant increase in the critical glycolysis enzymes, Pfk and Pyk proteins. Moreover, qRT-PCR results showed a remarkably upregulation in the transcriptional level of OGDH, a critical rate-limiting enzyme in the TCA cycle. Therefore, our study suggests that Bre1 improves the phenotypes of PD model flies by attenuating mitochondrial damage and enhancing energy metabolism, offering a potential drug target for ameliorating the symptoms of PINK1 mutant autosomal recessive PD patients.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; PINK1; Bre1; Mitochondria; Energy metabolism

Isabelle Xavier-de-Britto, Natália Cristina Gomes-da-Silva, Marilia Amável Gomes Soares, Cristian Follmer, David Dabkiewicz, Luciana Magalhães Rebelo Alencar, Celso Sant’Anna, Tatiana Paula Teixeira Ferreira, Patrícia Machado Rodrigues e Silva Martins, Eduardo Ricci-Junior, Pierre Basílio Almeida Fechine, Ralph Santos-Oliveira,
Therapeutic Potential of Arimoclomol Nanomicelles: In Vitro Impact on Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s Pathology and Correlation with In Vivo Inflammatory Response,
ACS Chemical Neuroscience,
Volume 16, Issue 4,
2025,
Pages 699-710,
ISSN 1948-7193,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00734.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1948719325000398)
Abstract: This study investigates the potential of arimoclomol-loaded nanomicelles for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, as well as their anti-inflammatory properties. Arimoclomol, a coinducer of heat shock proteins (HSPs), has shown clinical promise in mitigating protein misfolding, a hallmark of these diseases. In this work, arimoclomol nanomicelles significantly reduced the aggregation of β-amyloid (Aβ1–42) and α-synuclein (α-syn), key pathological proteins in Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. Additionally, the nanomicelles demonstrated potent anti-inflammatory effects, reducing leukocyte and neutrophil counts in an acute inflammation model. These results suggest that arimoclomol nanomicelles could enhance clinical outcomes by targeting both neurodegenerative and inflammatory processes, offering a promising therapeutic strategy for long-term disease management.

Keywords: drug delivery; neurodegenerative disease; inflammation

Ayşe Nur Tekindor, Eda Akman Aydın,
Speech signals-based Parkinson’s disease diagnosis using hybrid autoencoder-LSTM models,
Computers in Biology and Medicine,
Volume 193,
2025,
110334,
ISSN 0010-4825,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110334.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010482525006857)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that occurs as a result of a decrease in the chemical called dopamine in the brain. There is no definitive treatment for PD, but some medications used to control symptoms in the early stages have a critical effect on the progression of the disease. Approximately 90% of patients with PD have vocal problems, and although voice disorders seen in the early stages are not apparent in the patient’s speech, they can be detected by acoustic analysis. In this study, a decision support system was proposed for the diagnosis of PD utilizing the feature extraction power of autoencoder (AE) & long short-term memory (LSTM) models by using speech signals as input data. Firstly, simple (SAE), convolutional (CAE), and recurrent (RAE) AE models were created for the ablation analysis. Then, the effect of hybridization and deepening of these models with LSTM layers on the classification performance was observed. Within the scope of the study, RAE achieved the highest accuracy among the base models while CAE & LSTM hybrid model provided the highest performance among all models with 95.79% accuracy for PD diagnosis based on audio signals. It was concluded that hybridization of the AE and LSTM models significantly improved the performance of simple and convolutional AE, and deepening the network to a certain extent improves the classification performance according to the type of AE.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Speech analysis; Deep learning; Autoencoder; Long short-term memory

Shupei Jiao, Hua Huo, Wei Liu, Changwei Zhao, Lan Ma, Jinxuan Wang, Dongfang Li,
Efficient Parkinson’s disease classification from dynamic foot pressure data: A combined approach of clustering and feature selection,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 105,
2025,
107654,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2025.107654.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S174680942500165X)
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on diagnosing Parkinson’s patients using dynamic plantar pressure data collected via sensor devices. We employ data preprocessing methods, including clustering, dimensionality reduction, and multichannel feature screening. Our approach proposes a comprehensive set of data processing techniques, including data cleaning, constrained clustering, and dimensionality reduction, to convert sensor data into a multichannel multivariate time series suitable for neural network input. Unlike current methods that use all features for automatic filtering by the network — adding complexity and resource burden — we introduce a data analysis method combining statistical features and Recursive Feature Elimination. This reduces the number of channels and simplifies the model. We used a simplified 1D-convnet model, achieving a 10-fold accuracy of 91.09%, segmentation accuracy of 95.54%, individual accuracy of 97.33%, weighted precision of 95.71%, weighted recall of 95.56%, and a weighted F1-score of 95.61%. Our results validate the effectiveness of our data acquisition and feature screening methods, and notably, our processing speed is nearly three times faster.
Keywords: Pressure array sensor; Dynamic plantar pressure; Parkinson’s disease; Recursive feature elimination; Statistical feature analysis; Gait Recognition

Gulbakhar Izyumova, Daniyar Izyumov,
New opportunities for innovation and internet technologies in rehabilitation of patients with Parkinson's disease in the Aral Sea region of the Republic of Uzbekistan,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 22, Supplement 2,
2016,
Page e75,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.10.176.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802015006124)

Wenhao Qi, Shiying Shen, Chaoqun dong, Mengjiao Zhao, Shuaiqi Zang, Xiaohong Zhu, Jiaqi Li, Bin Wang, Yankai Shi, Yongze Dong, Huajuan Shen, Junling Kang, Xiaodong Lu, Guowei Jiang, Jingsong Du, Eryi Shu, Qingbo Zhou, Jinghua Wang, Shihua Cao,
Digital Biomarkers for Parkinson Disease: Bibliometric Analysis and a Scoping Review of Deep Learning for Freezing of Gait,
Journal of Medical Internet Research,
Volume 27,
2025,
,
ISSN 1438-8871,
https://doi.org/10.2196/71560.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1438887125007186)
Abstract: Background
With the rapid development of digital biomarkers in Parkinson disease (PD) research, it has become increasingly important to explore the current research trends and key areas of focus.
Objective
This study aimed to comprehensively evaluate the current status, hot spots, and future trends of global PD biomarker research, and provide a systematic review of deep learning models for freezing of gait (FOG) digital biomarkers.
Methods
This study used bibliometric analysis based on the Web of Science Core Collection database to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the multidimensional landscape of Parkinson digital biomarkers. After identifying research hot spots, the study also followed the PRISMA-ScR (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews) guidelines for a scoping review of deep learning models for FOG from 5 databases: Web of Science, PubMed, IEEE Xplore, Embase, and Google Scholar.
Results
A total of 750 studies were included in the bibliometric analysis, and 40 studies were included in the scoping review. The analysis revealed a growing number of related publications, with 3700 researchers contributing. Neurology had the highest average annual participation rate (12.46/19, 66%). The United States contributed the most research (192/1171, 16.4%), with 210 participating institutions, which was the highest among all countries. In the study of deep learning models for FOG, the average accuracy of the models was 0.92, sensitivity was 0.88, specificity was 0.90, and area under the curve was 0.91. In addition, 31 (78%) studies indicated that the best models were primarily convolutional neural networks or convolutional neural networks–based architectures.
Conclusions
Research on digital biomarkers for PD is currently at a stable stage of development, with widespread global interest from countries, institutions, and researchers. However, challenges remain, including insufficient interdisciplinary and interinstitutional collaboration, as well as a lack of corporate funding for related projects. Current research trends primarily focus on motor-related studies, particularly FOG monitoring. However, deep learning models for FOG still lack external validation and standardized performance reporting. Future research will likely progress toward deeper applications of artificial intelligence, enhanced interinstitutional collaboration, comprehensive analysis of different data types, and the exploration of digital biomarkers for a broader range of Parkinson symptoms.
Trial Registration
Open Science Foundation (OSF Registries) OSF.IO/RG8Y3; https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/RG8Y3
Keywords: Parkinson disease; digital biomarker; artificial intelligence; AI; machine learning; deep learning; bibliometric analysis; PRISMA

Malte Feja, Isabell Drath, Sandra Weiß, Alexander Ewe, Birthe Gericke, Tiago F. Outeiro, Leonidas Stefanis, Achim Aigner, Franziska Richter,
Nose-to-brain siRNA delivery by PEI/PPI-based nanoparticles reduces α-synuclein expression in a Parkinson’s disease mouse model,
Molecular Therapy Nucleic Acids,
Volume 36, Issue 3,
2025,
102671,
ISSN 2162-2531,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.omtn.2025.102671.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2162253125002252)
Abstract: Potential strategies to develop new treatments for Parkinson’s disease (PD) aim at targeting disease-associated proteins like alpha-synuclein (aSyn), which accumulates in neurons of PD patients and contributes to neuronal degeneration. A promising new approach is the therapeutic use of small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) for aSyn knockdown, but is challenging due to siRNA instability, poor delivery, and inefficient uptake. Therefore, we developed a nanoparticle-based approach for intranasal delivery of siRNAs, circumventing the blood-brain barrier and enhancing the potential of siRNAs for clinical application. Tyrosine-modified polyethylenimines (PEIs), or polypropylenimine dendrimers (PPIs), were complexed with siRNA targeting the aSyn-encoding gene SNCA (siSNCA) and combined with liposomes. Nanoparticles efficiently transfected SH-SY5Y cells with low cytotoxicity and significantly reduced SNCA mRNA levels. In Thy1-aSyn mice, intranasally administered labeled nanoparticles distributed extensively across the brain, including the olfactory bulb, substantia nigra, and prefrontal cortex. After only 4 days of treatment, siSNCA-loaded nanoparticles significantly reduced aSyn protein and SNCA mRNA levels in the brain. Mice showed neither overt adverse behavioral effects nor increased reactive microglia. These findings highlight the potential of nanoparticle-mediated intranasal siRNA delivery as a promising, non-invasive approach to reduce aSyn levels in the brain, offering a novel therapeutic strategy for Parkinson’s disease.
Keywords: MT: Delivery Strategies; intranasal; in vivo siRNA delivery; polyethylenimine; polypropylenimine; RNA interference; Thy1-aSyn mice

Decheng Bi, Jinfeng Huang, Nanting Zhu, Jue Cao, Yan Wu, Lijun Yao, Xueying Ding, Jianyong Wu, Xu Cao, Xu Xu,
Neuroprotective effect of an unsaturated mannuronate oligosaccharide derived from enzyme-degraded polymannuronate on an in vitro Parkinson's disease-like model,
Journal of Agriculture and Food Research,
Volume 22,
2025,
101994,
ISSN 2666-1543,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jafr.2025.101994.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666154325003655)
Abstract: This study mainly aimed to explore the intervention effect of an unsaturated mannuronate oligosaccharide (MOS) on Parkinson's disease (PD) and its potential mechanism at the cellular level. MOS, which possesses high water solubility and excellent biocompatibility, was prepared by enzyme degradation of alginate-derived polymannuronate. In 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced SH-SY5Y cell culture, MOS treatment effectively augmented the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) and parkin but suppressed the expression of α-synuclein (α-syn). Moreover, MOS exerted antioxidant activity by suppressing the excessive generation of reactive oxygen species and enhancing the activity of superoxide dismutase. MOS also inhibited 6-OHDA-induced apoptosis by enhancing mitochondrial membrane potential and mitigating the Bax/Bcl-2 pathway and improving autophagy that was blocked by 6-OHDA. In summary, these results have demonstrated the significant neuroprotective effect of MOS on SH-SY5Y cells, indicating that MOS has a certain intervention effect on the development of PD. This provides a promising foundation for developing novel therapeutic strategies targeting neurodegenerative disorders.
Keywords: Unsaturated mannuronate oligosaccharide (MOS); Parkinson's disease (PD); Cell culture model; Antioxidant; Anti-apoptosis; Autophagy

Jinyan Shao, Fang Wang,
Deep learning-based magnetic resonance imaging image reconstruction in the assessment of brain microstructural changes in Parkinson's disease patients,
Journal of Radiation Research and Applied Sciences,
Volume 18, Issue 4,
2025,
101876,
ISSN 1687-8507,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jrras.2025.101876.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1687850725005886)
Abstract: Objective
This study was aimed to investigate the application value of deep learning-based magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) image reconstruction technology in the assessment of brain microstructural changes in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
Methods
A total of 78 early-stage PD patients and 78 healthy controls were enrolled. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was performed using MRI, and images were reconstructed using a multi-object interactive neural network-based brain MRI segmentation model. Parameters including fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD), and radial diffusivity (RD) were calculated to assess microstructural changes in brain regions such as the substantia nigra, basal ganglia, and hippocampus. Pearson correlation analysis was employed to examine the association between regional parameters and Montreal cognitive assessment (MoCA) scores, while receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of these parameters for PD.
Results
The constructed segmentation model achieved a Dice similarity coefficient (DSC) of 0.922, with relative volume difference (RVD) and root mean square (RMS) values of 0.042 and 0.46, respectively, outperforming related algorithms. The PD group exhibited significantly reduced FA and increased RD in the substantia nigra, hippocampus, and thalamus. Hippocampal RD demonstrated a strong negative correlation with MoCA scores (r=-0.67, P<0.001). ROC analysis indicated that hippocampal RD had the best diagnostic efficacy for PD [area under the curve (AUC) = 0.90, sensitivity 88 %/specificity 87 %], followed by substantia nigra RD (AUC = 0.88) and thalamic RD (AUC = 0.87).
Conclusion
Deep learning-based MRI reconstruction technology can accurately quantify early brain microstructural damage in PD patients. The RD of the hippocampus and substantia nigra are sensitive biomarkers for diagnosing PD and screen cognitive impairment, providing a new imaging strategy for the early precise diagnosis and treatment of PD.
Keywords: Deep learning; MRI reconstruction; PD; DTI; Brain microstructure; Biomarker

Hiroshi Nagayama, Osamu Kano, Renpei Sengoku, Naotake Yanagisawa, Asako Yoritaka, Keisuke Suzuki, Noriko Nishikawa, Yohei Mukai, Kyoichi Nomura, Norihito Yoshida, Morinobu Seki, Miho Kawabe Matsukawa, Hiroo Terashi, Katsuo Kimura, Jun Tashiro, Shigeki Hirano, Hidetomo Murakami, Hideto Joki, Tsuyoshi Uchiyama, Hideki Shimura, Kotaro Ogaki, Jiro Fukae, Yoshio Tsuboi, Kazushi Takahashi, Toshimasa Yamamoto, Kenichi Kaida, Ryoko Ihara, Kazutomi Kanemaru, Taku Hatano,
Impact of istradefylline on motor and non-motor symptoms in patients with Parkinson’s disease: Subanalysis of the ISTRA ADJUST PD,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 12,
2025,
100327,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2025.100327.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112525000313)
Abstract: Introduction
Parkinson’s disease (PD) presents with diverse motor and non-motor symptoms, some of which do not fully respond to dopamine replacement therapy. To clarify the effects of the adenosine A2A receptor antagonist istradefylline (IST) on PD symptoms, we conducted a subanalysis of the 37-week ISTRA ADJUST PD randomized controlled trial.
Methods
Patients with PD experiencing wearing-off with levodopa at 300–400 mg/day were randomized 1:1 to receive IST or no IST (control). Levodopa doses were titrated according to clinical severity throughout the study. PD symptoms were assessed using the Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) and Parkinson’s Disease Questionnaire-39 (PDQ-39).
Results
The efficacy analyses included 105 patients (IST, n = 52; control, n = 53). Regarding MDS-UPDRS subitems in patients in the IST group, significant improvements (p < 0.05) were observed at week 36 compared with baseline for both motor (e.g., facial expression, rigidity, finger tapping, toe tapping, time spent in the off state, and complexity of motor fluctuation) and non-motor (e.g., daytime sleepiness, fatigue, and doing hobbies and other activities) symptoms. In patients in the control group, significant improvements (p < 0.05) were observed for motor symptoms only. Regarding PDQ-39 subitems in patients in the IST group, significant improvements (p < 0.05) were observed at week 36 compared with baseline in doing up buttons or shoelaces, writing, feeling angry or bitter, and unexpectedly falling asleep during the day.
Conclusion
IST can improve motor and non-motor symptoms and quality of life suggesting that it provides more comprehensive improvement in PD symptoms than increasing the levodopa dose alone.
Clinical trial registration:
Japan Registry of Clinical Trials; study ID: jRCTs031180248.
Keywords: Adenosine A2A receptor antagonist; Istradefylline; Levodopa; Motor symptoms; Non-motor symptoms; Parkinson’s disease

R.C. Braña Miranda, N.E. Quintanal Cordero, N. Pavón Fuentes, I. Pedroso Ibáñez, R. Macías González, J. Teijeiro Amador, A. Abreu Duque, R. Garbey Fernández,
Effect of the combination pallidotomy-subthalamotomy performed in opposite cerebral hemispheres for the treatment of motor signs in Parkinson's disease,
Neurología (English Edition),
Volume 40, Issue 6,
2025,
Pages 518-532,
ISSN 2173-5808,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nrleng.2025.06.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2173580825000483)
Abstract: Introduction
Functional Neurosurgery constitutes a therapeutic alternative for patients with Parkinson's Disease (PD). It is known that both bilateral subthalamotomy and bilateral pallidotomy cause neurological complications, so in ablative techniques a bilateral approach to the GPi is not recommended in PD and caution is suggested with the indication of bilateral subthalamotomy. Our group has refined the surgical technique for the ablation of the subthalamic nucleus seeking to reduce the appearance of dyskinesias induced by surgery and obtain a better therapeutic effect, so the approach to the NST in a second surgical procedure in the opposite hemisphere to the one performed previously pallidotomy, would avoid the complications derived from bilateral pallidotomy and can be a safe alternative for patients even when they present symptoms of dyskinesias. We set out to evaluate the effect and safety of the combination of GPi and NST lesion in opposite cerebral hemispheres in PD patients.
Method
A retrospective study was carried out that included all patients operated on at the CIREN in a period of 22 years, who underwent a pallidotomy contralateral to the most affected hemibody; followed by a subthalamotomy of the opposite hemisphere in a second surgical procedure. The effect on the neurological condition was evaluated using section III of the MDS-UPDRS scale. Safety was evaluated according to the adverse effects scale and the Clavien and Dindo scale.
Results
Both surgical interventions had a positive impact on the patients' pharmacological treatment, significantly reducing the doses of L-dopa. A significant improvement was observed in the motor condition of the patients in relation to dyskinesias, as well as rigidity, bradykinesia and tremor.
Conclusions
The pallidotomy/subthalamotomy combination showed to be an effective alternative for the treatment of complicated PD, capable of allowing better motor control and a reduction in the dose of L-Dopa with a low rate of complications; it also allows to avoid complications derived from bilateral pallidotomy and subthalamotomy, proving to be a safe alternative for patients even when they present symptoms of dyskinesias.
Resumen
Introducción
La Cirugía Funcional constituye una alternativa terapéutica para los pacientes con Enfermedad de Parkinson (EP). Es conocido que tanto la subtalamotomía como la palidotomía bilaterales provocan complicaciones neurológicas, por lo que en las técnicas ablativas no resulta recomendable el abordaje bilateral del GPi en la EP y se sugiere tener precaución con la indicación de la subtalamotomía bilateral. Nuestro grupo ha perfeccionado la técnica quirúrgica para la ablación del núcleo subtalámico buscando disminuir la aparición de las discinesias inducidas por la cirugía y obtener mejor efecto terapéutico, por lo que el abordaje del NST en un segundo tiempo quirúrgico en el hemisferio opuesto al que se realizó previamente la palidotomía, evitaría las complicaciones derivadas de la palidotomía bilateral y puede ser una alternativa segura para los pacientes aun cuando estos presenten cuadros de discinesias. Nos propusimos evaluar el efecto y la seguridad de la combinación de la lesión del GPi y del NST en hemisferios cerebrales opuestos en pacientes con EP.
Método
Se realizó un estudio retrospectivo que incluyó a todos los pacientes operados en el CIREN en un periodo de 22 años, a los que se les realizó una palidotomía contralateral al hemicuerpo más afectado; seguida de una subtalamotomía del hemisferio opuesto en un segundo tiempo quirúrgico. El efecto sobre la condición neurológica fue evaluado mediante la sección III de la escala de MDS-UPDRS. Se evaluó la seguridad según escala de efectos adversos y escala de Clavien y Dindo.
Resultados
Ambas intervenciones quirúrgicas tuvieron un impacto positivo en el tratamiento farmacológico de los pacientes reduciéndose significativamente las dosis de L-dopa. Se observó una mejoría significativa en la condición motora de los pacientes en relación a las discinesias, así como a la rigidez, la bradicinesia y el temblor.
Conclusiones
La combinación palidotomía/subtalamotomía mostró ser una alternativa efectiva para el tratamiento de la EP complicada, capaz de permitir un mejor control motor y una reducción de la dosis de L-Dopa con una baja tasa de complicaciones; permitiendo además evitar las complicaciones derivadas de la palidotomía y de la subtalamotomía bilaterales, demostrando ser una alternativa segura para los pacientes aun cuando estos presenten cuadros de discinesias.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Pallidotomy; Subthalamotomy; Functional neurosurgery; Enfermedad de Parkinson; Palidotomía; Subtalamotomía; Neurocirugía funcional

Chongxin Zhong, Jinyuan Jia, Huining Li,
An adaptive multimodal fusion framework for smartphone-based medication adherence monitoring of Parkinson’s disease,
Smart Health,
Volume 36,
2025,
100561,
ISSN 2352-6483,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.smhl.2025.100561.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352648325000224)
Abstract: Ensuring medication adherence for Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients is crucial to relieve patients’ symptoms and better customizing regimens according to patient’s clinical responses. However, traditional self-management approaches are often error-prone and have limited effectiveness in improving adherence. While smartphone-based solutions have been introduced to monitor various PD metrics, including medication adherence, these methods often rely on single-modality data or fail to fully leverage the advantages of multimodal integration. To address the issues, we present an adaptive multimodal fusion framework for monitoring medication adherence of PD based on a smartphone. Specifically, we segment and transform raw data from sensors to spectrograms. Then, we integrate multimodal data with quantification of their qualities and perform gradient modulation based on the contribution of each modality. Afterward, we monitor medication adherence in PD patients by detecting their medicine intake status. We evaluate the performance with the dataset from daily-life scenarios involving 455 patients. The results show that our work can achieve around 94% accuracy in medication adherence monitoring, indicating that our proposed framework is a promising tool to facilitate medication adherence monitoring in PD patients’ daily lives.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Smartphone; Multimodal fusion

Maham Afzal, Huma Hameed, Ana Cláudia Paiva-Santos, Makkia Saleem, Anam Hameed, Syed Muhammad Ahmad,
Bioengineered exosomes: Cellular membrane-camouflaged biomimetic nanocarriers for Parkinson's disease management,
European Journal of Pharmacology,
Volume 987,
2025,
177199,
ISSN 0014-2999,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.177199.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014299924008896)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease is a prevalent neurological condition that affects around 1% of adults over 60 worldwide. Deep brain stimulation and dopamine replacement therapy are common therapies for Parkinson's disease, yet they are unable to reverse the disease it simply because of the blood brain barrier. The use of bioengineered exosomes to treat Parkinson's disease is being studied because they have the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier. Their natural ability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and their biocompatibility make them highly suitable for delivering therapeutic agents to manage PD, specifically the role of astrocytes, microglial cells, and alpha-synuclein. It also explores the biogenesis and preparation of these bioengineered exosomes. In comparison to conventional nanocarriers, the modified exosomal-membrane-camouflaged abiotic nanocarriers show improved resilience and compatibility. Improved cellular absorption and targeted delivery of therapeutic payloads, such as medications and enzymes, are being shown in laboratory trials. A viable strategy for treating PD involves combining abiotic nanocarriers with bioengineered exosomal membranes. Despite their promising potential, successful clinical application requires overcoming hurdles related to scalable production, regulatory approval, and long-term safety evaluation. Nevertheless, the innovative use of bioengineered exosomes holds significant promise for advancing PD management and improving patient outcomes through more targeted and effective therapeutic strategies.
Keywords: Bio-engineered; Exosomes; Nanocarriers; Parkinsons; Targeted delivery

Ye Liu, Xi-Xi Wang, Xu-Jun Wang, Min-Min Yin, Mo-Yao Tan, Chang-Peng Wang, Tie-Nan Feng, Jie Liu, Yu Wang, Xuan Li, Si-Jia Peng, Xiao-Jin Zhang, Xiao-Ying Zhu, Ya Feng, Eng-King Tan, Yun-Cheng Wu,
Acoustic prosodic parameters associated with Parkinson's disease cognitive impairment,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 132,
2025,
107306,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107306.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025000471)
Abstract: Background
Acoustic prosodic analysis is a novel approach that can be used to identify patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We hypothesize that acoustic analysis can also differentiate cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD).
Methods
We investigated acoustic parameters in 90 subjects including 30 PD with normal cognition (PD-NC), 30 PD with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) and 30 PD with dementia (PDD). The reading task “Supermarket Passage” and the picture description task “Cookie Theft” were used. Feature selection and modelling were then performed to systematically evaluate the importance and clinical implications of the acoustic parameters in identifying PD with cognitive impairment.
Results
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) and mediation analysis revealed that acoustic parameters were independently associated with cognitive impairment including PDD and PD-MCI. These Acoustic parameters enabled the detection of PD with cognitive impairment with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.826. Compared with PD-NC, speech rate, pre-verb pause (≥1s), between-utterance pause (≥2s) in the “Cookie Theft” task were the two key cognitive impairment detection factors, which were frequently identified by LASSO model in both PDD and PD-MCI. F0SD of interrogative sentence was often selected in PDD. In feature selection, AUC was 0.944 in discriminating PDD from PD-NC and AUC was 0.753 in discriminating PD-MCI from PD-NC.
Conclusion
We demonstrated that acoustic parameters are useful in differentiating PD patients with cognitive impairment from patients with normal cognition after adjusting variables such as age, which was also a significant contributor to cognitive decline. Acoustic parameters may be valuable for automated screening the risk of cognitive decline in PD patients. It deserves further investigation.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Cognitive impairment; Early diagnosis; Prosody; Acoustic parameter

Guoxue Zhu, Chengcheng Xu, Shujun Jiang, Zhennian Zhang, Wang Wang,
Medicinal and food plant: Cistanches Herba, a potential therapeutic hope for Parkinson's disease and related complications,
Journal of Agriculture and Food Research,
Volume 19,
2025,
101671,
ISSN 2666-1543,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jafr.2025.101671.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666154325000420)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, currently lacks disease-modifying treatments. The conventional therapeutic approach, which focuses on targeting individual molecules, falls short in addressing the complex pathology of PD. Cistanches Herba, a medicinal herb also recognized as a functional food, has shown therapeutic potential in mitigating PD and its associated complications through various mechanisms. In this review, we conducted thorough searches across PubMed and Web of Science using a range of keywords such as "Parkinson's disease," "Cistanches Herba," "Medicine Food Homology," "chemical component," "prescriptions," "complications," "mechanism," "safety," and "toxicity," as well as different keyword combinations. Our findings indicate that Cistanches Herba, along with its active compounds and formulations, exerts therapeutic effects in PD through neuroprotection, anti-inflammatory activity, and other mechanisms. This multi-component, multi-target strategy underscores the herb's broad therapeutic potential. Additionally, we critically assess the safety and toxicity profile of Cistanches Herba, laying the groundwork for its safe and effective clinical application. This review offers a comprehensive overview of the pharmacological properties of Cistanches Herba in treating PD and its complications, providing new insights into its therapeutic potential and contributing to the expanding body of research on PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Cistanches herba; Medicine food homology; Safety; Toxicity

Shuai Zhang, Qingzhao Wang, Yihao Xu, Haochen Zhang, Jinrui Mi, Xiaochao Lu, Ruiyang Fan, Jiangwei Lv, Guizhi Xu,
Transcranial magneto-acoustic stimulation enhances motor function and modulates cortical excitability of motor cortex in a Parkinson's disease mouse model,
Behavioural Brain Research,
Volume 480,
2025,
115364,
ISSN 0166-4328,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115364.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432824005205)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized primarily by motor dysfunction. Transcranial magneto-acoustic stimulation (TMAS), an emerging non-invasive brain neuromodulation technology, is increasingly being applied in the treatment of brain diseases. However, the effects of TMAS on PD are unknown, which is not well studied. Here, we utilized TMAS on PD model mice induced by MPTP to investigate the underlying mechanism of therapy. Our study found that TMAS improved the behavioral performance of PD model mice, enhancing the motor function and motivation for movement. Besides, it inhibited the increased beta oscillations in the motor cortex, while also reducing gamma oscillations. Moreover, the abnormally exaggerated beta-broad gamma phase amplitude coupling (PAC) was decreased after TMAS, and there was a significant negative correlation between PAC and both distance traveled and mean speed during the open filed test. Additionally, the ongoing stimulation could provide neuroprotection, implying that TMAS could ameliorate the loss of dopaminergic neurons, with no damage observed in the brain tissue of mice. Our findings suggest that TMAS could provide a non-invasive tool for the treatment of Parkinson's disease and beta-broad gamma phase amplitude coupling could be employed as a biomarker for PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Neuromodulation; Transcranial magneto-acoustic stimulation; Neural oscillations; Local field potentials

Victoria Soto Linan, Véronique Rioux, Modesto Peralta, Nicolas Dupré, Marc Hébert, Martin Lévesque,
Early detection of Parkinson's disease: Retinal functional impairments as potential biomarkers,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 208,
2025,
106872,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106872.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996125000889)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease is typically diagnosed after substantial neurodegeneration despite early non-motor symptoms manifesting decades earlier. These changes offer a promising avenue for diagnostic exploration, especially within the eye, which has been proposed as a “window to the brain.”
Objective
The aim was to identify biomarkers by validating the use of electroretinography, a non-invasive technique, to detect early retinal function anomalies reflecting central dysfunction.
Methods
Homozygous M83 transgenic mice (n = 10 males, 11 females), overexpressing human A53T α-synuclein, underwent behavioral tests and electroretinography measurements. Histological evaluation was performed at four months to analyze synucleinopathies and neurodegeneration. Electroretinography was also conducted with idiopathic PD patients (mean age 63.35 ± 7.73; disease duration 4.15 ± 2.06; H&Y score 2.07 ± 0.59; n = 12 males, 8 females) and healthy age-matched controls (mean age 61.65 ± 8.39; n = 9 males, 11 females).
Results
Rodent electroretinography revealed reduced photopic b-wave, PhNR b-wave, and PhNR-wave amplitudes at two and four months, particularly in females, indicating bipolar and retinal ganglion cell impairment. Based on retinal histological assessment, these changes might arise from α-synuclein pathology occurring in outer retinal layers. Likewise, the scotopic b-wave and PhNR waveform were similarly impaired in female participants with Parkinson's disease. The scotopic oscillatory potentials isolated further identified an attenuated amacrine cell output in females.
Conclusions
Findings from both mice and human cohorts indicate that retinal functional impairments can be detected early in the progression of Parkinson's disease, particularly among females. These tools show promise in facilitating early diagnosis, disease monitoring, therapeutic intervention, and ultimately enhancing patient outcomes.
Keywords: Electroretinography; Retina; Biomarkers; Parkinson's; Diagnosis

Shunping Zang, Jia Ke, Hanbing Zheng, Qing Liu, Benhua Wang, Minhuan Lan, Xiangzhi Song,
Visualization of copper metabolic fluctuations across various stages of Parkinson’s disease by a near-infrared fluorescent sensor,
Chinese Chemical Letters,
2025,
111822,
ISSN 1001-8417,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2025.111822.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1001841725010009)
Abstract: ABSTRACT
The etiology and pathogenesis of Parkinson’s disease (PD) are complex, and its precise pathology remains poorly defined. Emerging evidence suggest that the dysregulation of intracellular copper ion (Cu2+) is tightly associated with PD progression. However, the dynamic interplay between Cu2+ and different stages of PD progression is not fully understood yet. In this study, we developed four Cu2+ fluorescent sensors and evaluated their blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration efficiency. Among them, PD-Cu-3 exhibited a 62.15% BBB penetration ability and was successfully utilized for real-time monitoring of Cu2+ fluctuations in PD model cells and mice. We first observed an initial increase in Cu2+ level during the early phase PD model cells, followed by a decline in prolonged conditions due to ATP7A-mediated intracellular Cu2+ efflux. Furthermore, in vivo imaging results from PD model mice and brain slices revealed Cu2+ fluctuations across different PD stages, with an elevation in the acute stage and a subsequent reduction in the subacute stage. This study not only provided a new insight into Cu2+ metabolism in PD progression but also help understanding of PD pathology and searching potential therapeutic approaches.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Copper fluctuations; Blood-brain barrier; Fluorescent sensor; Near-infrared; Bioimaging

Yu-Jie Yang, Yi-Xin Zhao, Xin-Yi Li, Chuantao Zuo,
New Targets for Positron Emission Tomography Imaging in Parkinson´s Disease,
Seminars in Nuclear Medicine,
Volume 55, Issue 5,
2025,
Pages 795-803,
ISSN 0001-2998,
https://doi.org/10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2025.05.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001299825000613)
Abstract: In recent years, the neuroimaging biomarkers for Parkinson’s disease (PD) has advanced rapidly, targeting to the key pathological mechanisms such as α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregation, neuroinflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction and brain clearance. This review summarized the novel imaging targets and their clinical practice in human studies. The presynaptic dopamine transporters and 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) have been characterized as established biomarkers in PD. Furthermore, as the key pathogenic protein in PD, α-syn aggregation forming Lewy bodies could drive the neuronal degeneration, making the α-syn-targeted PET imaging a critical focus in PD research. Other co-pathologies, including amyloid-β and tau protein, were also concluded for their clinical implications in PD. Additionally, the PET imaging targets for neuroinflammatory mechanisms, including mitochondrial dysfunction, microglial and astrocyte activation, hold promise for further investigation. Finally, the radiotracers detecting disruptions of blood-brain barrier and glymphatic system would also represent as therapeutic opportunities. In conclusion, the vigorous development of novel imaging biomarkers in PD will refine the diagnostic frameworks, promoting for the future disease-modifying therapies.

Luca Pietrosanti, Martina Patera, Antonio Suppa, Giovanni Costantini, Nicola Arangino, Franco Giannini, Giovanni Saggio,
Relevance of harmonic content findings of hand motor (dys)functionalities in Parkinson’s disease revealed by means of a sensory glove,
Biocybernetics and Biomedical Engineering,
Volume 45, Issue 3,
2025,
Pages 507-514,
ISSN 0208-5216,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbe.2025.07.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0208521625000567)
Abstract: Hand functions are vital for performing daily activities, ensuring independence, and maintaining quality of life. In Parkinson’s disease (PD), impaired hand function affects fine motor skills, dexterity, and coordination, leading to difficulties in self-care, communication, and work-related tasks. As such, correct hand function assessment in PD is among the crucial aspects in evaluating motor impairment, in guiding treatment and tracking disease progression. Here, we report objective results obtained in assessing hand (dys)functionalities using an on-the-shelves fingerless sensory glove, named MANUS Quantum Metaglove, capable of sensing the variations of an electromagnetic field (EMF) sourced on the dorsal part of the hand and revealed by EMF coils at the fingers tips. A total of 65 people (35 PD patients and 30 healthy subjects for reference) were asked to perform standard motor tasks, and both most affected and least affected hands were assessed for opening-closing, grasping and pronation-supination movements. Differing from the generally adopted spatiotemporal analysis, taking a cue from non-linear theory adopted in electronics, we focused on spectral characteristics of the measured signals, specifically examining harmonic content and related harmonic distortions. As a result, we report how the adopted sensory glove, ensemble with spectral analysis, can be able to consistently assess hand motor (in)abilities in PD subjects and healthy subjects. In fact according to our results, PD patients significatively performed with hand motion signals affected by harmonic distortions, which revealed that the greater the complexity of the motor task, the greater the spread of the signal across harmonic frequencies, whilst healthy subjects perform with signals mostly around the fundamental frequency, as a marker of movement smoothness.

Michela Salvadè, Monica DiLuca, Fabrizio Gardoni,
An update on drug repurposing in Parkinson’s disease: Preclinical and clinical considerations,
Biomedicine & Pharmacotherapy,
Volume 183,
2025,
117862,
ISSN 0753-3322,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopha.2025.117862.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0753332225000563)
Abstract: The strategy of drug repositioning has historically played a significant role in the identification of new treatments for Parkinson’s disease. Still today, numerous clinical and preclinical studies are investigating drug classes, already marketed for the treatment of metabolic disorders, for their potential use in Parkinson’s disease patients. While drug repurposing offers a promising, fast, and cost-effective path to new treatments, these drugs still require thorough preclinical evaluation to assess their efficacy, addressing the specific neurodegenerative mechanisms of the disease. This review explores the state-of-the-art approaches to drug repurposing for Parkinson’s disease, highlighting particularly relevant aspects. Preclinical studies still predominantly rely on traditional neurotoxin-based animal models, which fail to effectively replicate disease progression and are characterized by significant variability in model severity and timing of drug treatment. Importantly, for almost all the drugs analyzed here, there is insufficient data regarding the mechanism of action responsible for the therapeutic effect. Regarding drug efficacy, these factors may obviously render results less reliable or comparable. Accordingly, future preclinical drug repurposing studies in the Parkinson’s disease field should be carried out using next-generation animal models like α-synuclein-based models that, unfortunately, have to date been used mostly for studies of disease pathogenesis and only rarely in pharmacological studies.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Drug repurposing; Animal models

Qiushuo Cheng, Catherine Morgan, Arindam Sikdar, Alessandro Masullo, Alan Whone, Majid Mirmehdi,
Your turn: At home turning angle estimation for Parkinson’s disease severity assessment,
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine,
Volume 167,
2025,
103194,
ISSN 0933-3657,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artmed.2025.103194.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0933365725001290)
Abstract: People with Parkinson’s Disease (PD) often experience progressively worsening gait, including changes in how they turn around, as the disease progresses. Existing clinical rating tools are not capable of capturing hour-by-hour variations of PD symptoms, as they are confined to brief assessments within clinic settings, leaving gait performance outside these controlled environments unaccounted for. Measuring turning angles continuously and passively is a component step towards using gait characteristics as sensitive indicators of disease progression in PD. This paper presents a deep learning-based approach to automatically quantify turning angles by extracting 3D skeletons from videos and calculating the rotation of hip and knee joints. We utilise advanced human pose estimation models, Fastpose and Strided Transformer, on a total of 1386 turning video clips from 24 subjects (12 people with PD and 12 healthy control volunteers), trimmed from a PD dataset of unscripted free-living videos in a home-like setting (Turn-REMAP). We also curate a turning video dataset, Turn-H3.6M, from the public Human3.6M human pose benchmark with 3D groundtruth, to further validate our method. Previous gait research has primarily taken place in clinics or laboratories evaluating scripted gait outcomes, but this work focuses on free-living home settings where complexities exist, such as baggy clothing and poor lighting. Due to difficulties in obtaining accurate groundtruth data in a free-living setting, we quantise the angle into the nearest bin 45° based on the manual labelling of expert clinicians. Our method achieves a turning calculation accuracy of 41.6%, a Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of 34.7°, and a weighted precision (WPrec) of 68.3% for Turn-REMAP. On Turn-H3.6M, it achieves an accuracy of 73.5%, an MAE of 18.5°, and a WPrec of 86.2%. This is the first work to explore the use of single monocular camera data to quantify turns by PD patients in a home setting. All data and models are publicly available, providing a baseline for turning parameter measurement to promote future PD gait research.
Keywords: Turning angle; Human pose estimation; Gait analysis; Parkinson’s disease; Digital biomarker

Yongqiang Zhu, Qi Xi, Yan Liu, Yang Zhou, Jun Liao, Qiong Wu,
Recent advances in exosome-based nanodelivery systems for Parkinson's disease,
Biomaterials,
Volume 325,
2026,
123548,
ISSN 0142-9612,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biomaterials.2025.123548.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142961225004673)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that primarily affects dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Its multifactorial pathogenic mechanisms include oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, α-synuclein aggregation, neuroinflammation, and alterations in the gut microbiome, ultimately leading to neuronal deficits and debilitating motor and nonmotor symptoms. Although conventional therapies provide temporary relief, their efficacy tends to wane over time or produce adverse effects. Exosome-based therapeutic strategies are a promising alternative, and we highlight the unique advantages of exosomes, including their biocompatibility, low immunogenicity, and ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, thereby facilitating the targeted delivery of neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory medications to affected regions. We also discuss recent advances in exosome engineering to improve cargo loading, enhance cell specificity and improve efficacy. However, large-scale exosome production, targeted delivery and long-term safety remain major challenges. Early-phase clinical trials of exosome-based therapies in other neurodegenerative conditions have demonstrated acceptable tolerability, and ongoing preclinical studies in PD models suggest potential efficacy, laying the groundwork for future clinical translation.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Exosomes; Nano drug delivery systems; Nanomedicine; Target therapy

Karthikeyan Rajagopal, Nafise Naseri, Fatemeh Parastesh, Farnaz Ghassemi, Sajad Jafari,
Phase synchronization analysis of EEG functional connectivity in Parkinson’s disease,
Journal of Theoretical Biology,
Volume 598,
2025,
111997,
ISSN 0022-5193,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtbi.2024.111997.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022519324002820)
Abstract: There is a growing need for research on Parkinson’s disease (PD), a neurological condition that often affects the elderly. By examining brain network connectivity, researchers are able to discover how different brain regions interact during various cognitive and behavioral tasks. They can also understand how changes in nonlinear connections may be linked to neurological and mental illnesses. In this paper, the synchrony levels of 59 EEG channels from 26 Parkinson’s patients and 13 healthy subjects is examined by utilizing Phase-Lag Index (PLI) during a motor task and resting-state conditions. Examining different EEG frequency bands shows that whole-brain synchronization in the delta band is significantly lower in PD patients compared to healthy subjects during the task. PD patients also exhibit a lower clustering coefficient and a higher shortest path length in this band during the task, which shows the higher small-worldness in Parkinson’s patients compared to healthy individuals. Moreover, the global efficiency in the delta band is significantly reduced in PD patients during the task. An analysis of local efficiency shows that PD and control groups differ in 57 channels. These results reveal that Parkinson’s patients appear to have considerable pathological abnormalities in their delta band connectivity and its characteristic features.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Complex networks; Brain functional network; Synchronization; Graph theory

Hanna Steurer, Joakim Körner Gustafsson, Erika Franzén, Ellika Schalling,
Auditory-Perceptual Analysis of Speech Outcomes Following HiCommunication Intervention in Parkinson’s Disease—A Secondary Analysis of a Randomized Controlled Trial,
Journal of Voice,
2025,
,
ISSN 0892-1997,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvoice.2025.06.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0892199725002346)
Abstract: SUMMARY
Purpose
HiCommunication is a group intervention for Parkinson’s disease (PD) targeting speech and communication. This study investigated its effects on speech and voice using auditory-perceptual analyses, following previous evaluation with acoustic outcomes, and examined correlations between auditory-perceptual parameters and acoustic measures.
Methods
Ninety-five participants with mild-to-moderate PD were randomized to either HiCommunication or an active control intervention. Experienced speech and language pathologists rated 21 speech and voice parameters from recordings collected preintervention, postintervention, and at a 6-month follow-up. Intention-to-treat (ITT) analyses—where all participants are analyzed in their original groups regardless of adherence—used linear or Hurdle multilevel models with imputed missing values, complemented by per-protocol analyses. Correlation analyses examined the relationship between acoustic measures (voice sound level, Acoustic Voice Quality Index, and harmonics-to-noise ratio) and corresponding auditory-perceptual parameters.
Results
In the ITT analyses, loudness decay showed a significant group effect (b = 1.66, P = 0.032) and group-by-time interaction (b = 0.52, P = 0.034), confirmed in intervention completers. Additional group-by-time effects in completers were observed for imprecise articulation (b = 0.70, P = 0.016) and vocal fry (b = 0.58, P = 0.003). Weak-to-strong correlations were observed between auditory-perceptual and acoustic measures.
Conclusion
The findings highlight the potential benefits of HiCommunication in improving loudness, articulation, and voice quality (ie, reduced vocal fry) in individuals with PD, particularly among completers of the intervention. However, effects on broader auditory-perceptual parameters of speech deviation were limited, and the perceptual ratings appeared less sensitive than acoustic measures in detecting subtle changes associated with mild hypokinetic dysarthria. These results underscore the value of combining auditory-perceptual and acoustic assessments in evaluating speech interventions and point to the need for strategies to support adherence and optimize outcomes.
Clinical trial registration number
NCT03213873.
Keywords: RCT—Parkinson’s disease—Speech—Voice—Perceptual

Congjie Yan, Zexi Tian, Weiquan Ruan, Mengfen Wu, Weidong Wang, Zenggen Liu,
Erianin isolated from Dendrobium huoshanense alleviated neuroinflammation in MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease model via NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway,
Journal of Ethnopharmacology,
Volume 345,
2025,
119620,
ISSN 0378-8741,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jep.2025.119620.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378874125003046)
Abstract: Ethnopharmacological relevance
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, yet effective therapeutic options remain limited. Dendrobium huoshanense (DH), a medicinal and edible herb mainly distributed in Ta-pieh Mountains of Central China, has been used to treat disorders of consciousness and chronic nervous diseases in the local hospital for thousands of years. Erianin, a bioactive bibenzyl compound isolated from DH, has emerged as a potential neuroprotective agent due to its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties.
Aim of the study
This study aimed to investigate the neuroprotective effects of Erianin in the treatment of PD and the underlying mechanisms, particularly focusing on inflammation and oxidative stress, through both in vivo and in vitro models.
Materials and methods
A 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mouse model was employed. The protective effects of Erianin were evaluated through neurobehavioral tests, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, Nissl staining, serum biochemical tests, and Western blotting. The role of Erianin in modulating the NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway was investigated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated BV-2 microglia cells.
Results
Erianin significantly alleviated MPTP-induced motor deficits, reduced neuroinflammation, and reversed abnormal secretion of inflammatory and oxidative stress factors in the serum. Additionally, Erianin suppressed the gene expression of NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the striatum of PD mice. And, Erianin inhibited the activation of the NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway, decreased the production of oxidative stress factors, and reversed the secretion of inflammatory mediators in LPS-stimulated BV-2 microglia cells.
Conclusion
Erianin exerts neuroprotective effects in Parkinson's disease primarily by inhibiting the NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling pathway. These findings suggest that Erianin holds promise as a potential therapeutic candidate for the treatment of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway; Neuroinflammation; Dendrobium huoshanense; Erianin

L. Cayuela, E. Zapata-Arriaza, A. de Albóniga-Chindurza, A. González García, A. Cayuela,
Unravelling the temporal evolution of Parkinson's disease mortality in Spanish autonomous communities (1999–2021),
Neurología,
2025,
501911,
ISSN 0213-4853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nrl.2025.501911.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0213485325000672)
Abstract: Objective
This observational retrospective study aimed to analyse the mortality trends of Parkinson's disease (PD) in Spain from 1999 to 2021, by autonomous community and sex.
Methods
The study collected PD mortality data from 1999 to 2021 from the National Statistics Institute of Spain. Age-standardised mortality rates were analysed by sex and age group, using joinpoint analysis to identify significant trends.
Results
Over the study period, 72907 deaths due to PD were recorded in Spain, with 51% occurring in men and 49% in women. Both men and women showed a consistent upward trend in PD mortality rates at the national level, with annual increases of 2.1% for men and 2.0% for women. Joinpoint analysis revealed significant changes in trends within specific regions. Among men, rates in Catalonia stabilised after an initial increase, whereas Madrid showed a significant increase after a period of stability. Conversely, La Rioja exhibited a notable decrease after a period of increase. Similar patterns were observed for women, with certain regions showing stable rates while others displayed an upward trend. Cantabria, Galicia, and Valencia stabilised after an initial significant increase, Madrid showed a significant increase after a period of stability, and Andalusia demonstrated an acceleration after an initial increase.
Conclusions
Our findings underscore the significance of monitoring PD mortality trends and their varying impact across different regions and sexes. This valuable information can play a crucial role in shaping future healthcare policies and designing effective prevention strategies.
Resumen
Objetivo
Este estudio observacional retrospectivo tuvo como objetivo analizar las tendencias de mortalidad por enfermedad de Parkinson (EP) en España desde 1999 hasta 2021 por comunidades autónomas y sexo.
Métodos
El estudio recogió datos de mortalidad por EP de 1999 a 2021 del Instituto Nacional de Estadística de España. Las tasas de mortalidad estandarizadas por edad se analizaron por grupos de edad y sexo, utilizando un análisis joinpoint para identificar tendencias significativas.
Resultados
Durante el periodo de estudio, España registró 72.907 muertes por EP, de las cuales el 51% se produjeron en hombres y el 49% en mujeres. Tanto hombres como mujeres mostraron una consistente tendencia al alza en las tasas de mortalidad relacionadas con la EP a nivel nacional, con incrementos anuales del 2,1% para los hombres y del 2,0% para las mujeres. El análisis Joinpoint reveló cambios significativos en las tendencias dentro de regiones específicas. En el caso de los hombres, las tasas de Cataluña se estabilizaron tras un aumento inicial, mientras que Madrid experimentó un aumento significativo tras un periodo de estabilidad. Por el contrario, La Rioja experimentó un notable descenso tras un periodo de aumento. En el caso de las mujeres se observaron pautas similares, ya que algunas regiones mostraron tasas estables, mientras que otras mostraron una tendencia al alza. Cantabria, Galicia y Valencia se estabilizaron tras un aumento significativo inicial, Madrid mostró un aumento significativo tras un periodo de estabilidad y Andalucía mostró una aceleración tras un aumento inicial.
Conclusiones
Nuestros hallazgos subrayan la importancia de monitorizar las tendencias de mortalidad por EP y su impacto variable en diferentes regiones y sexos. Esta valiosa información puede desempeñar un papel crucial en la configuración de futuras políticas sanitarias y en el diseño de estrategias de prevención eficaces.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Epidemiology; Mortality; Neurodegenerative disorders; Trends; Enfermedad de Parkinson; Epidemiología; Mortalidad; Trastornos neurodegenerativos; Tendencias

Han-Xing Li, Jun-Yi Liu, Jing-Yi Wang, Meng-Xing Tao, Wei-Ye Xie, Hong Jin, Cheng-Jie Mao, Yun Shen, Chun-Feng Liu,
Motor events during REM sleep are associated with occipital lobe activity in Parkinson's disease,
Sleep Medicine,
Volume 130,
2025,
Pages 56-63,
ISSN 1389-9457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sleep.2025.03.020.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389945725001376)
Abstract: Study objectives
Abnormal motor events during REM sleep are common in Parkinson's disease (PD), but few studies have evaluated motor events comprehensively. This study aimed to categorize different types of motor events and explore their relationships with clinical symptoms, sleep structure and cortical electrophysiological characteristics.
Methods
116 PD patients (49 women and 67 men) underwent a clinical assessment and video-polysomnography. REM sleep-related motor events were classified into elementary motor events and complex motor events. Patients were categorized into three groups: PD-non motor events (PD-nME), PD-elementary motor events (PD-eME), and PD-complex motor events (PD-cME). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to calculate the predictive value of PSG-EEG for motor events during REM sleep.
Results
PD-cME group showed prolonged total sleep time, increased REM sleep percentage, and shortened REM latency compared to other groups. Both PD-eME and PD-cME groups exhibited higher theta relative power and lower beta relative power across extensive cortical regions compared to PD-nME group. Additionally, PD-cME group showed reduced alpha relative power in the left occipital lobe compared to other groups. The theta/beta ratio (TBR) in the right occipital lobe demonstrated significant predictive value for both elementary and complex motor events during REM sleep.
Conclusion
Both elementary and complex motor events during REM sleep in PD patients were associated with abnormal cortical activation. The occipital cortex may potentially constitute a component of the neural circuitry underlying REM sleep.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; REM sleep; Polysomnography; Electroencephalogram

Yansong Liu, Mengjiao Wang, Wei Han, Xinghe Guan, Zeyu Wang, Shibo Guo, Peng Fu,
Multiparametric analysis based on 18F-AV133 PET/MR imaging for clinical application in Parkinson’s disease,
European Journal of Radiology,
Volume 187,
2025,
112074,
ISSN 0720-048X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejrad.2025.112074.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0720048X25001603)
Abstract: Objective
The progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons and abnormal iron deposition in the central nervous system (CNS) are key pathogenic mechanisms of Parkinson’s disease (PD). This study aimed to explore the relationship between iron deposition in specific CNS regions and striatal dysfunction using 18F-AV133 PET/MR imaging.
Methods
Based on the Hoehn-Yahr stage, 24 patients with early-stage PD (EPD, stage ≤ 2.5), 17 patients with late-stage PD (LPD, stage ≥ 3), and 30 healthy controls (HCs) were recruited for scale evaluation. The specific uptake ratio (SUR) of striatal subregions was calculated using the occipital cortex as the reference region. Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping (QSM) values of major subcortical nuclei were derived through QSM imaging. Spearman correlation analysis was conducted to assess the relationships between SUR in striatal subregions, QSM values in nuclear groups, and PD clinical symptoms, as well as the correlation between SUR and QSM values.
Results
Compared to HC, EPD and LPD patients showed significantly reduced VMAT2 distribution in the bilateral caudate nuclei and anteroposterior putamen, particularly in the contralateral posterior putamen. In PD patients, the SUR of striatal subregions and QSM values of the substantia nigra (SN), globus pallidus (GP), and external segment of the GP (GPe) were significantly correlated with disease duration, H&Y stage, UPDRS III score, and NMSS score. Moreover, SUR of striatal subregions was negatively correlated with QSM values in the SN, GP, internal segment of the GP (GPi), and GPe.
Conclusion
Multi-parameter analysis revealed a region-specific correlation between striatal dysfunction and iron deposition in PD, offering new avenues to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of the disease.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Positron emission tomography; Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping

Leyre Ayerra, Miguel Angel Abellanas, Clara Vidaurre, Leyre Basurco, Adriana Tavira, Esther Luquin, Pedro Clavero, Elisa Mengual, Maria Collantes, Ivan Peñuelas, Samuel Ruiz de Martin-Esteban, Uwe Grether, Cecilia J. Hillard, Julian Romero, Sandra Hervás-Stubbs, Maria S. Aymerich,
Activation of central cannabinoid type 2 receptors, but not on peripheral immune cells, is required for endocannabinoid-mediated neuroprotection in Parkinson’s disease,
Brain, Behavior, and Immunity,
Volume 128,
2025,
Pages 600-611,
ISSN 0889-1591,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbi.2025.04.037.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0889159125001746)
Abstract: Neuroinflammation is a key feature of Parkinson’s disease (PD). The cannabinoid receptor type 2 (CB2R) is expressed by cells of the innate and adaptive immune systems. Inhibition of monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) with JZL184 increases the levels of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), which is neuroprotective for dopaminergic neurons. The aim of this study was to determine whether the neuroprotective effect of MAGL inhibition is mediated by CB2R activation on specific immune cell populations. Experimental parkinsonism was induced by chronic administration of MPTP and probenecid. A specific increase in CD4+ T cell infiltration was detected in the midbrain of parkinsonian mice and was reduced by administration of JZL184. JZL184 had no effect in CB2R KO mice, suggesting that CB2R is required for neuroprotection. In the brain, CB2R expression was restricted to myeloid cells and lymphocytes, and increased in microglia under parkinsonian conditions. Administration of a central CB2R agonist, JWH133, exerted a beneficial effect similar to that of JZL184, whereas the peripheral agonist RO304 lacked neuroprotective activity. These results were confirmed using chimeric mice. In silico analysis, showed that transcripts related to 2-AG biosynthesis are downregulated in the midbrain microglia from PD patients. Our results show that activation of CB2R in the brain prevents nigrostriatal degeneration, CD4+ T cell infiltration and TNFα production in the midbrain of parkinsonian mice. The reduced 2-AG signaling in microglia from PD patients suggests that activation of microglial CB2R may be an interesting strategy for the treatment of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Neuroprotection; Endocannabinoid system; Cannabinoid receptor type 2; Microglia; CD4+ T cells

Yanan Tian, Fengqi Wang, Jikai Shen, Ruiqi Zhang, Qianwen Chen, Le Xu, Dong Liu, Mengyang Fan, Zhen Tian, Xufeng Cen, Xiaoyan Xu, Hongguang Xia,
Preclinical safety and toxicokinetic evaluation of TJ0113, a first-in-class mitophagy inducer for Parkinson's disease,
Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology,
Volume 505,
2025,
117565,
ISSN 0041-008X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.taap.2025.117565.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0041008X25003412)
Abstract: Mitochondrial dysfunction is a key driver of neurodegeneration, highlighting mitophagy as a tractable therapeutic axis. Yet the clinical translation of mitophagy-targeting agents requires robust, GLP-compliant nonclinical safety data to support and de-risk human trials in line with international guidelines. TJ0113, a first-in-class small-molecule inducer of mitophagy, has shown disease-modifying activity in preclinical models and is being evaluated in a registered, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II trial in Parkinson's disease (NCT06596005). We conducted a comprehensive safety assessment of TJ0113 in Sprague–Dawley rats and Beagle dogs under GLP. Single-dose studies (up to 1500 mg/kg, oral) and repeat-dose studies (rats: 15, 30, 100 mg/kg/day for 26 weeks; dogs: 6, 20, 60 mg/kg/day for 39 weeks) evaluated systemic toxicity, toxicokinetics (TK), safety pharmacology endpoints (including ECG), and a standard genotoxicity battery (Ames, chromosomal aberration, micronucleus) consistent with ICH S2(R1). No treatment-related mortality or target-organ toxicity occurred. A modest increase in relative kidney organ coefficient in rats was observed but without biochemical or histopathological correlates and was considered non-adverse. Clinical pathology, ECG, and dog urinalysis remained within physiological limits; all genotoxicity tests were negative. TK showed rapid absorption with linear, dose-proportional exposure and no accumulation at the end of dosing. The NOAELs were 100 mg/kg/day in rats (26 weeks) and 60 mg/kg/day in dogs (39 weeks). These data establish a favorable nonclinical safety profile for TJ0113 and provide GLP evidence supporting further clinical development of this selective mitophagy-targeting agent.
Keywords: TJ0113; Mitophagy; Mitochondrial quality control; Genotoxicity; Toxicokinetics; Parkinson's disease

Sandor Szunyogh, Emily Carroll, Richard Wade-Martins,
Recent developments in gene therapy for Parkinson’s disease,
Molecular Therapy,
Volume 33, Issue 5,
2025,
Pages 2052-2064,
ISSN 1525-0016,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymthe.2025.03.030.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1525001625002047)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disorder for which there is currently no cure. Gene therapy has emerged as a novel approach offering renewed hope for the development of treatments that meaningfully alter the course of the disease. In this review, we explore various gene therapy strategies currently being developed targeting key aspects of PD pathogenesis: the restoration of the dopamine system by delivering genes involved in dopamine biosynthesis, reinforcing the inhibitory signaling pathways through glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) delivery to increase GABA production, enhancing neuronal survival and development by introducing various neurotrophic factors, delivery of genes to complement recessive familial PD mutations to correct mitochondrial dysfunction, restoring lysosomal function through delivery of GBA1 to increase glucocerebrosidase (GCase) activity, and reducing α-synuclein levels by reducing or silencing SNCA expression. Despite promising early work, challenges remain in developing safe, effective, and long-lasting gene therapies. Key considerations include optimizing viral vectors for targeted delivery, achieving controlled and sustained gene expression using different promoters, minimizing immune responses, and increasing transgene delivery capacity. Future prospects may involve combinatory strategies targeting multiple pathways, such as multi-gene constructs delivered via high-capacity viral systems.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; gene therapy; AAV; HSV-1; lentivirus; dopamine neurons; growth factor delivery; neuromodulation

Mengling Hu, Xiaoqian Li, Dongsheng Fan, Lu Yu, Fan Ren, Jianming Wu, Jianing Mi, Yang Zheng, Xiaogang Zhou, Dalian Qin, Anguo Wu,
NAD+ supplementation augments the efficacy of the PARP1 inhibitor PJ34 in a 6-OHDA-induced model of Parkinson's disease,
Genes & Diseases,
2025,
101783,
ISSN 2352-3042,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gendis.2025.101783.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352304225002727)

Chenyu Dang, Zifan Feng, Tao Xu, Mi Li, Zhipeng Wang, Hualong Song, Ru-Bing Wang,
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Potential Threat Analysis of Targeting Leucine-Rich Repeat Kinase 2 for Parkinson’s Disease Treatment: Status Quo and Quo Vad is,
Journal of Medicinal Chemistry,
2025,
,
ISSN 1520-4804,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.5c00013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1520480425007264)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorders, and no curative treatments are currently available. Mutations in the LRRK2 gene, which encodes leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), are among the most frequent genetic causes of both familial and sporadic PD cases. These pathogenic mutations enhance the kinase activity of LRRK2, and preclinical studies have indicated that inhibitors of LRRK2 kinase provide neuroprotection, making LRRK2 a promising therapeutic target for PD. In recent years, efforts to develop innovative therapies targeting LRRK2 have intensified, driving advancements in PD drug development. Here, we provide a comprehensive SWOT analysis of the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats of targeting LRRK2 for PD treatments.


Viktoria Azoidou, Kira Rowsell, Ellen Camboe, Kamalesh C. Dey, Alexandra Zirra, Corrine Quah, Thomas Boyle, David Gallagher, Alastair J. Noyce, Cristina Simonet,
A pilot interventional study on feasibility and effectiveness of the CUE1 device in Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 133,
2025,
107349,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107349.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025000902)
Abstract: Introduction
Current treatments for patients with Parkinson's disease (PwP) can fail to address gait disturbance and falls, which in turn affect quality of life (QoL). The CUE1 device delivers cueing with vibrotactile stimulation showing potential to alleviate motor symptoms and reduce falls based on preliminary user testing results. This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility, safety, and tolerability of CUE1 and its effect on motor and non-motor symptoms in PwP.
Methods
PwP used the CUE1 for 9-weeks and were assessed at week 0, 3, 6, and 9 on MDS-UPDRS Part-III, Timed Up and Go (TUG), TUG with dual task (DT), and Functional Gait Assessment (FGA). Patients-reported outcomes were assessed through MDS-UPDRS Part-I, Part-II, and Part-IV.
Results
Ten PwP (5 females, age range: 46–80; disease duration: 3–9 years) completed the CUE1 intervention with 100 % compliance and no adverse events. CUE1 comfort and usability were rated highly (80 %). Immediate CUE1 effect was observed on MDS-UPDRS Part-III (45.40 ± 12.22 vs 39.60 ± 11.74, p = 0.008), TUG (11.53 ± 1.92 vs 11.08 ± 1.94, p = 0.022), TUG DT (18.57 ± 5.75 vs 17.61 ± 6.28, p = 0.037) and FGA (16.40 ± 3.86 vs 18.60 ± 3.92, p = 0.007). Cumulative effect was noted on MDS-UPDRS-III (45.40 ± 12.22 vs 27.80 ± 12.32, p = 0.005), FGA (18.60 ± 3.92 vs 23.10 ± 2.85, p < 0.001), TUG DT (18.57 ± 5.75 vs 13.58 ± 7.05, p = 0.031), MDS-UPDRS Part-I (18.60 ± 6.75 vs 12.20 ± 3.68, p = 0.011), MDS-UPDRS Part-II (17.30 ± 7.29 vs 11.90 ± 8.67, p = 0.002), and MDS-UPDRS Part-IV(7.50 ± 3.75 vs 3.40 ± 2.95, p = 0.003).
Conclusion
In this unblinded, feasibility study, cueing with vibrotactile stimulation delivered via the CUE1 technology appeared to be a feasible, safe and well tolerated intervention for PwP improving motor and non-motor features.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Medical devices; Motor symptoms; Gait; Cueing

Luca Marsili, Matteo Bologna, Lily Y. Chen, Alberto J. Espay,
Treatment of Motor Symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease,
Neurologic Clinics,
Volume 43, Issue 2,
2025,
Pages 341-363,
ISSN 0733-8619,
ISBN 9780443131714,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ncl.2024.12.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0733861924001051)
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Therapy; Levodopa; Dopamine agonists; Device-aided therapies; Deep brain stimulation; MRI-guided high-frequency focused ultrasound

M. Lakshmi Prasanna, Chandan Kumar, Ram Krishn Mishra,
Enhanced Parkinson’s Diagnosis through Ensemble Learning with Stacking and Cross-Validation,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 259,
2025,
Pages 250-259,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2025.03.326.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050925010701)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) damage to the brain’s nerve cells. Detecting the initial symptoms, including tremors, muscular rigidity, decreased balance, and trouble walking, requires a prolonged time. The PD ranks among the leading causes of disability and death among neurological disorders, according to the “World Health Organization”. Insufficient evidence from blood tests and MRI scans to support early diagnosis makes it challenging for doctors to detect PD in its initial stages. An excellent early alert indicator and a predictor of PD is through speech. Predicting the onset of Parkinson’s disease using audio recordings of both healthy people and those with the condition is the subject of this research. Effective evaluation of individual and ensemble machine learning approaches for PD classification using quantitative acoustic measure data is carried out in this article. This paper implements several ML methods, including “Support Vector Machine”, “Random Forest”, “Gradient Boosting Classifier”, “K-Nearest Neighbor”, “Logistic Regression”, and “Decision Tree”. An ensemble model is utilized incorporating stacking and stacking with cross-validation methods. The model performance is assessed using four metrics: “Accuracy”, “Recall”, “Precision”, and “F1 score”. The models are analysed and compared, showing accuracy levels ranging from 70% to 82% using the PD dataset. The higher-performing models are selected for a stacking ensemble to enhance overall performance. The stacking ensemble approach achieved an accuracy of 92% and provides accurate recognition of the disease. Subsequently, a stacking cross-validation classifier is employed to all models, resulting in an improved accuracy of 95%.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Machine learning; Ensemble Models; Random Forest Classifier

Wenjia Li, Quanrui Rao, Shuying Dong, Mengyuan Zhu, Zhen Yang, Xianggeng Huang, Guangchen Liu,
PIDGN: An explainable multimodal deep learning framework for early prediction of Parkinson's disease,
Journal of Neuroscience Methods,
Volume 415,
2025,
110363,
ISSN 0165-0270,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jneumeth.2025.110363.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165027025000044)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most common neurodegenerative disease in the world, is usually not diagnosed until the later stages of the disease, when patients might have already missed the best treatment period. Therefore, more effective prediction methods based on artificial intelligence (AI) are needed to assist physicians in timely diagnosis.
New methods
An explainable deep learning-based early Parkinson's disease diagnostic model, Parkinson's Integrative Diagnostic Gated Network (PIDGN), was designed by fusing Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) and brain sMRI data. Firstly, unimodal internal information was extracted using EmsembleTree dimensionality reduction method, Transformer encoder and 3D ResNet. Secondly, gated attention fusion technique was utilized to explore the inter-modal interactions. Finally, the classification results were output through the fully connected layer. SHapley additive interpretation (SHAP) values and Gradient-weighted Class Activation Mapping (Grad-CAM) techniques were used to help explain the importance of SNPs and brain regions for PD.
Results
The results showed that the PIDGN model achieved the best results with the accuracy of 0.858 and AUROC of 0.897. Top 20 SNPs and the brain regions near the midbrain potentially related to PD were identified using two explainable techniques via SHAP values and Grad-CAM respectively.
Comparison with existing methods and conclusion
The PIDGN model trained by fusing genetic and imaging data outperforms 13 other commonly used unimodal or bimodal models. Explainable PIDGN model helps deepen understanding of several SNPs and sMRI key factors that may affect PD. This study provides a potentially effective solution for automated early diagnosis of PD using AI.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Multimodal learning; Transformer; Explainable deep learning; Imaging genomics

Meng-Lin Lee, Gong-Hong Lin, Yi-Ching Wang, Shih-Chieh Lee, Ching-Lin Hsieh,
Machine Learning-based World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule for persons with Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 133,
2025,
107316,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107316.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025000574)
Abstract: Introduction
The World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule 2.0 (WHODAS 2.0) is a well-known measure to assess disability in persons with Parkinson's disease (PD). The purpose of this study was to develop a short form of the WHODAS 2.0 for persons with PD using a machine learning-based methodology (ML-WHODAS) and to examine the efficiency (i.e., number of items needed to be administered) and validity of the ML-WHODAS.
Methods
A secondary data analysis was performed. Data were randomly assigned to training datasets (80 %) and validation datasets (20 %). For developing the ML-WHODAS, the eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) regressor was used to select the most informative items from the training datasets, and then the final XGBoost model was generated. The efficiency, concurrent validity, and convergent validity of the ML-WHODAS were then examined using the validation dataset.
Results
Data from 1633 patients were randomly assigned into the training dataset (1306) and the validation dataset (327). Eighteen items were selected for the ML-WHODAS to reproduce 6 domain scores and one global score of the original WHODAS 2.0. In the validation dataset, the Pearson's coefficients r between the scores of the ML-WHODAS and WHODAS 2.0 were 0.97–0.99, indicating very high concurrent validity. Significant correlations were found regarding convergent validity of the domain and global scores.
Conclusions
The ML-WHODAS showed good efficiency and validity compared to the WHODAS 2.0 in persons with PD. The ML-WHODAS demonstrates its potential as an alternative to the WHODAS 2.0, though further validations (e.g., test-retest reliability and responsiveness) are warranted.
Keywords: Disability; Machine learning; Parkinson's disease; Validity

Theeraya Upachit, Sitha Piyaselakul, Prachaya Srivanitchapoom, Jarugool Tretriluxana,
Investigation of passive tone and viscoelasticity in neck muscles in pre-symptomatic neck flexion abnormality in Parkinson's disease: Observational study,
Journal of Bodywork and Movement Therapies,
Volume 42,
2025,
Pages 397-401,
ISSN 1360-8592,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbmt.2025.01.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1360859225000142)
Abstract: Background
Forward neck flexion (FNF) is a common postural abnormality in Parkinson's disease (PD), which disturbs the overall body alignment and can lead to more severe deformities through both central nervous system control and biomechanical compensation. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the biomechanical and viscoelastic properties of forward neck muscles related to FNF in individuals with PD, both with and without FNF, in comparison to age-matched individuals with normal posture.
Methods
Hand-held myotonometry (Myoton Pro®) was conducted to determine the biomechanical and viscoelastic properties of the sternocleidomastoid and anterior scalene muscles of all thirty participants: individuals with PD and FNF (n = 10), individuals with PD without FNF (n = 10), and normal controls (n = 10).
Result
Individuals with PD, both with and without FNF, exhibited higher passive tone and muscle stiffness and lower elasticity, relaxation time, and creep in both muscles, particularly in the sternocleidomastoid, compared to age-matched normal controls. No significant differences in any muscle variables were found between the two PD groups.
Conclusion
These findings indicate that the biomechanical and viscoelastic properties of neck muscles are altered even in the presymptomatic stage of postural abnormalities in PD. This may provide potential evidence of underlying peripheral factors that involve postural deformities via proprioceptive disturbances and exacerbate rigidity in PD.
Keywords: Biomechanical properties; Viscoelasticity; Parkinson's disease; Postural abnormalities; Myotonometry

Yuqin Chen, Wei Lv, Jiangna Xu, Shengnan Li, Kefan Song, Yue Gong, Wei Zhao, Hongli Liu, Zhenwei Ding, Linfeng Liu, Jiaqing Yin, Dan Su, Ming Lu, Xiangming Fang, Hongliang Xin,
Mesenchymal stem cell membrane camouflaged mesoporous polydopamine for Parkinson's disease treatment via alleviating oxidative stress mediated neuroinflammation,
Biomaterials,
Volume 324,
2026,
123537,
ISSN 0142-9612,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biomaterials.2025.123537.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142961225004569)
Abstract: Excessive accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in Parkinson's disease (PD) leads to oxidative stress, which induces neuroinflammation and accelerates disease progression. To address this, we developed mPDA@MSC, a nanosystem consisting of mesoporous polydopamine (mPDA) nanoparticles coated with a mesenchymal stem cell membrane (MSCm), which exhibits ROS-scavenging properties. The mPDA structure significantly enhanced ROS-scavenging and anti-inflammatory activities, while the surface-encapsulated MSCm enabled effective blood-brain barrier traversal and targeted the lesion site in the PD brain. Both in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that mPDA@MSC exerted anti-Parkinsonian effects through multiple mechanisms, including ROS scavenging, modulation of mitochondrial dysfunction, and promotion of the transition from pro-inflammatory to anti-inflammatory microglial phenotypes. This resulted in the reversal of dopaminergic neuron damage, inhibition of α-synuclein (α-syn) production, and improvement in behavioral deficits and other phenotypes. These findings highlight the potential of mPDA@MSC as a therapeutic agent for PD and introduce a novel approach to anti-PD therapy.

Aliya C.M. Warden, Craig McAllister, Marit F.L. Ruitenberg, Hayley J. MacDonald,
Impulse control in Parkinson’s disease: Distinct effects between action and choice,
Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews,
Volume 169,
2025,
106026,
ISSN 0149-7634,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neubiorev.2025.106026.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0149763425000260)
Abstract: Aside from typical motor symptoms, impulse control issues related to engaging in actions or decision-making can manifest in Parkinson’s disease (PD). The lack of direct comparisons between impulsive action and impulsive choice domains hinders a comprehensive understanding of impaired impulse control in this population. Therefore, the current review integrates findings across behavioural measures of impulsive action and choice in PD samples, both on and off dopaminergic medication. The qualitative review of studies revealed a distinction between the two impulsivity domains in the context of PD. While impulsive action impairments present in early, non-medicated PD and persist throughout the disease, impulsive choice deficits may only emerge after time on medication. Research on impulsive choice, especially in non-medicated PD, is limited, and the impact of medication status and disease progression on both domains remains inconclusive. We recommend that future studies integrate impulsive action and choice task types within the same sample and employ longitudinal designs to monitor how disease progression and corresponding medication changes affect impulse control over time.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Impulse control; Dopamine medication; Impulsive action; Impulsive choice

Iman Karimi-Sani, Mehrdad Sharifi, Nahid Abolpour, Mehrzad Lotfi, Amir Atapour, Mohammad-Ali Takhshid, Amirhossein Sahebkar,
Drug repositioning for Parkinson’s disease: An emphasis on artificial intelligence approaches,
Ageing Research Reviews,
Volume 104,
2025,
102651,
ISSN 1568-1637,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2024.102651.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568163724004690)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is one of the most incapacitating neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs). PD is the second most common NDD worldwide which affects approximately 1–2 percent of people over 65 years. It is an attractive pursuit for artificial intelligence (AI) to contribute to and evolve PD treatments through drug repositioning by repurposing existing drugs, shelved drugs, or even candidates that do not meet the criteria for clinical trials. A search was conducted in three databases Web of Science, Scopus, and PubMed. We reviewed the data related to the last years (1975-present) to identify those drugs currently being proposed for repositioning in PD. Moreover, we reviewed the present status of the computational approach, including AI/Machine Learning (AI/ML)-powered pharmaceutical discovery efforts and their implementation in PD treatment. It was found that the number of drug repositioning studies for PD has increased recently. Repositioning of drugs in PD is taking off, and scientific communities are increasingly interested in communicating its results and finding effective treatment alternatives for PD. A better chance of success in PD drug discovery has been made possible due to AI/ML algorithm advancements. In addition to the experimentation stage of drug discovery, it is also important to leverage AI in the planning stage of clinical trials to make them more effective. New AI-based models or solutions that increase the success rate of drug development are greatly needed.
Keywords: Neurodegenerative diseases; Parkinson’s disease; Levodopa induced dyskinesia; Drug repositioning; Artificial intelligence; Machine learning; Deep learning

Yan Liu, Yu Cheng, Tianran Chen, Jun Wang, Jiajin He, Fuwu Yan, Lirong Yan,
Basal ganglia connectivity and network asymmetry in Parkinson’s disease: A resting-state fMRI study,
Brain Research,
Volume 1856,
2025,
149576,
ISSN 0006-8993,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149576.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899325001349)
Abstract: This study investigates the impact of basal ganglia network asymmetry on motor function in Parkinson’s Disease (PD). Using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), functional connectivity and network asymmetry were analyzed in 15 non-demented PD patients and 15 healthy controls. Sixteen basal ganglia substructures, including the caudate, putamen, and globus pallidus, were selected for a unified analysis of variance framework to evaluate inter-hemispheric connectivity differences. After spatial preprocessing, regions of interest were defined, and time-series data were extracted for functional connectivity and network asymmetry analysis. The results revealed significant alterations in the functional connectivity of the caudate, putamen, and nucleus accumbens (NAc) in PD patients. Notably, the absence of intra-network asymmetry in the left NAc and bilateral amygdala correlated with motor dysfunction, likely due to overactivity of the inhibitory indirect pathway. Furthermore, pronounced asymmetry in the left putamen and right frontal gyrus suggested a compensatory neural mechanism supporting motor performance. These findings highlight the critical role of basal ganglia network asymmetry in the pathophysiology of PD. The identified asymmetry characteristics may serve as potential biomarkers for early diagnosis and disease progression monitoring, offering new directions for targeted therapeutic interventions.
Keywords: Basal ganglia; Network asymmetry; Parkinson’s disease; Resting state; Functional magnetic resonance imaging

Thalita Vitória Silva da Cruz, Hilton Justino da Silva, Kelli Nogueira Ferraz Pereira Althoff, Ana Cláudia de Carvalho Vieira, Thiago Freire Pinto Bezerra, Hellen Vasconcelos Silva Leal de Lima, Julianne Pitanga Teixeira, Adriana de Oliveira Camargo Gomes, Zulina Souza de Lira,
Acoustic Parameters After Vocal Technique Associated With Virtual Reality With Electromyographic Biofeedback and Rhythmic Auditory Stimulation in Individuals With Parkinson's Disease,
Journal of Voice,
2025,
,
ISSN 0892-1997,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvoice.2025.02.038.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0892199725000876)
Abstract: Summary
Objective
To compare the post technique effect of pushing with plosive sounds associated with virtual reality (VR) using electromyographic biofeedback and rhythmic auditory stimulation (RAS) on acoustic parameters in the voice of individuals with Parkinson’s disease (PD).
Method
The study sample included 30 individuals with PD (15 men and 15 women), with a mean age of 62.13 ± 9.05 years. All participants underwent vocal exercises associated with VR and RAS interventions. The first intervention was randomly assigned, and the second was conducted after 7 days. Speech tasks were recorded before and after interventions. The study analyzed the acoustic voice parameters from these recordings, assessed the participants’ satisfaction after VR and RAS, and surveyed their preference between these strategies.
Results
The jitter, shimmer, and vocal irregularity parameters of the individuals with PD improved after the vocal technique associated with RAS. No improvements in these parameters were observed with VR. The comparison between RAS and VR results showed a reduction in shimmer with RAS. Participants reported a significant preference for VR rather than RAS in combination with vocal exercises.
Conclusion
The vocal technique associated with RAS applied to individuals with PD improved vocal parameters related to sound wave perturbation. The study population preferred VR to RAS.
Keywords: Voice—Virtual reality—Acoustic stimulation—Parkinson disease—Voice quality

Tian Zhang, Zhaohui Jin, Keke Chen, Guangying Pei, Tiantian Liu, Tianyi Yan, Boyan Fang,
Characteristics of multimodal physiological signal differences in symptom fluctuations in Parkinson’s disease,
Neuroscience,
Volume 569,
2025,
Pages 322-330,
ISSN 0306-4522,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.02.028.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306452225001423)
Abstract: This study investigates the differences in multimodal physiological signals between patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) and healthy individuals, focusing on how symptom fluctuations affect these signals in PD. A total of 35 PD patients and 30 healthy controls participated. The PD patients were further categorized into two groups: those with symptom fluctuations (SF) and those without (NSF). Multimodal physiological signals, including EEG, ECG, respiration, and pulse, were recorded in resting state. Features were extracted from these signals and analyzed using non-parametric statistical tests. The results showed that the SF group had significantly higher absolute power in the β bands in the frontal, parietal, and central regions, as well as increased δ band power in the parietal regions compared to the NSF group. Additionally, several time-domain characteristics of the ECG signal were significantly greater in the SF group. These findings suggest that symptom fluctuations may influence cortical activity and cardiac autonomic function in PD patients. While levodopa-based treatments can alleviate certain symptoms, they may not fully compensate for the functional alterations in brain activity. Further research is needed to explore the effects on other physiological systems.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Multimodal signal; Symptom fluctuations; Characteristics analysis

Gilsoon Park, Jongmok Ha, Jun Seok Lee, Jong Hyeon Ahn, Jin Whan Cho, Sang Won Seo, Jinyoung Youn, Hosung Kim,
Data-driven, cross-sectional image-based subtyping and staging of brain volumetric changes in Parkinson's disease,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 212,
2025,
106970,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106970.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S096999612500186X)
Abstract: Background
Several subtyping methods have been proposed to characterize Parkinson's disease (PD) progression, yet the trajectory of subcortical and cortical neurodegeneration and its clinical implications remain unclear.
Objectives
We aimed to conduct a strictly image-based, data-driven classification of PD progression through Subtype and Stage Inference (SuStaIn) algorithm.
Methods
Brain volumetric data from 565 patients with PD and 150 propensity-matched healthy controls were analyzed. 16 regions of interest, including 9 cortical and 7 deep grey matter structures, were segmented from T1-weighted magnetic resonance images. Clinical data, including REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD), and motor complications were collected. SuStaIn was trained and tested using a 10-folds cross-validation and identified two distinct PD progression subtypes, which were compared for differences in clinical and radiological characteristics.
Results
We found two distinct neurodegenerative trajectories: deep grey matter (DG)-first and cortex (CO)-first. The CO-first subtype had a higher prevalence of RBD (p = 0.009) and levodopa-induced dyskinesia (p = 0.024) than the DG-first subtype. Disease progression was faster in the CO-first subtype (0.203 year/stage, LEDD increase 59.3 mg/year), than in the DG-first subtype (0.081 year/stage, LEDD increase 45.1 mg/year, respectively). Regardless of the subtypes, the sensorimotor and auditory cortices were the earliest affected cortical regions, while the amygdala was the first affected subcortically. A subset of participants (n = 186) showed no significant atrophy progression.
Conclusions
Our findings support the existence of two distinct subtypes of PD progression based on neuroimaging data. Longitudinal studies are warranted to track their evolution.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Disease progression subtyping

Mariyemuguli Reheman, Sagar Buch, Naying He, Pei Huang, Qiurong Yu, Xinhui Wang, Yu Liu, Youmin Zhang, Zhijia Jin, Yan Li, Peng Liu, Shengdi Chen, E. Mark Haacke, Fuhua Yan,
White matter hyperintensity tissue property spatial variations as a function of cognitive status in Parkinson’s disease,
NeuroImage,
Volume 312,
2025,
121236,
ISSN 1053-8119,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2025.121236.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811925002393)
Abstract: Background and purpose
The pathological relationship between white matter hyperintensities (WMH) and cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unclear due to their variable locations, heterogeneity, and limited assessment of underlying tissue properties. This study integrates T2-FLAIR and quantitative MRI (qMRI) to investigate burden, spatial distribution, and extent of tissue alterations in WMH, aiming to elucidate their role in cognitive decline among PD patients.
Methods
A total of 122 age- and sex-matched PD patients and 65 healthy controls (HC) were recruited, with PD patients grouped by Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) score including normal, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or PD with dementia (PDD). WMH burden was compared across groups and cognitive status. Water content, T1, and T2* measures were derived from qMRI data and tissue property heatmaps and periventricular distance profiles were constructed for all groups to visualize location-dependent tissue alterations of WMH relative to the lateral ventricles. In addition, voxel-wise analysis was performed to examine the correlation between WMH lesion tissue properties and MoCA scores.
Results
WMH volume was significantly higher in PDD compared to other groups (p < 0.05) and negatively correlated with MoCA scores (r = −0.352, p < 0.001). WMH appeared predominantly around the lateral ventricles, with anterior horn involvement common to all groups and posterior horn involvement specific to PDD. qMRI measures were significantly elevated in WMH compared to normal appearing white matter (NAWM) (p < 0.001), with heatmaps showing a negative gradient of tissue property changes from the lateral ventricles to the NAWM. Voxel-wise analysis revealed a significant negative correlation between the qMRI tissue properties of periventricular WMH and MoCA scores, with the strongest association observed in the periventricular WM situated just beyond the boundary of the lateral ventricles.
Conclusion
Over and above volume differences, the spatial distribution and tissue property variations of WMH were closely linked to cognitive impairment in PD patients, with distinct patterns across different cognitive stages.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; White matter lesions; Quantitative MRI; Cognitive impairment

Rezvan Bakhtiyarian, Mahdi Majlesi, Elaheh Azadian, Makwan Jabar Ali,
Examining virtual reality's influence on kinetic variables for obstacle crossing in Parkinson's disease,
Gait & Posture,
Volume 121,
2025,
Pages 85-92,
ISSN 0966-6362,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gaitpost.2025.05.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966636225002097)
Abstract: Background
Individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) commonly experience postural instability during walking and obstacle crossing. Previous research has explored virtual reality (VR) as a rehabilitation tool that affects gait.
Research Question
How does a virtual reality environment influence the kinetic characteristics of gait during obstacle crossing in individuals with Parkinson's disease compared to real-world conditions?
Methods
The study included 15 individuals with PD and 17 matched healthy control participants. The moment and power of lower extremity joints during walking and obstacle crossing conditions in real and VR environments were measured using three-dimensional motion analysis and force platforms.
Results
The results indicate that individuals with PD demonstrated higher hip extensor moments during normal gait (NG) and obstacle crossing (OBS) tasks, accompanied by lower hip flexor moments compared to the control group. Moreover, PD individuals exhibited increased internal rotation hip joint moments during VR obstacle crossing (VR-OBS) tasks compared to NG.
Conclusion
Walking in a VR environment altered the kinetic status in both groups, potentially due to cautious walking to maintain stability. The greatest difference between the two groups was observed in the magnitude of joint moment in the sagittal plane, likely influenced by differences in walking speed. These findings underscore the unique joint moment patterns exhibited by PD patients during various tasks. Walking in a VR environment impacts the kinetic parameters of gait, which may have implications for designing rehabilitation programs aimed at improving gait stability in PD individuals. Clinically, these kinetic alterations highlight VR’s potential as a safe modality for gait rehabilitation and fall prevention in PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Gait; Virtual reality; Obstacle crossing

Guillaume Blivet, Benjamin Touchon, Hugo Cavadore, Sara Guillemin, Frédéric Pain, Michael Weiner, Marwan Sabbagh, Cécile Moro, Jacques Touchon,
Brain photobiomodulation: a potential treatment in Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases,
The Journal of Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease,
Volume 12, Issue 7,
2025,
100185,
ISSN 2274-5807,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100185.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S227458072500130X)
Abstract: Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) and Parkinson’s Disease (PD) are common neurodegenerative diseases, characterized by the progressive loss of synapses and neurons, leading to cognitive and motor decline. Their pathophysiology includes cerebral lesions, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation as well as brain-gut axis microbiota dysbiosis. Preclinical investigations demonstrated that brain photobiomodulation (bPBM) reduces oxidative stress and inflammation, increases cerebral blood flow and enhance neurogenesis and synaptogenesis, which makes bPBM a promising treatment in AD and PD. This review focuses on the clinical application of bPBM in AD and PD. It aims to provide a scientific overview of the current clinical knowledge, review recent clinical studies findings, and describe future directions and upcoming clinical studies. So far, several clinical studies investigated bPBM therapy, at various parameters, both in patients with AD and related dementia, and PD. All demonstrate bPBM safety and bring valuable clinical information regarding efficacy, with particularly promising results in AD. However, their exploratory design and inconsistent quality lead to a low level of evidence, which currently does not support the widespread use of bPBM in clinical practice. Future clinical research should address two gaps: the need for robust double-blinded RCTs vs sham with a higher number of patients and a longer follow-up, and the need for research focusing on dosimetry to determine which bPBM parameters are optimal. The ongoing or unpublished clinical studies on bPBM should fill in this gap.
Keywords: Alzheimer; Dementia; Parkinson; Photobiomodulation; Treatment

Roshana Mukhtar, Chuan-Yu Chang, Muhammad Asif Zahoor Raja, Naveed Ishtiaq Chaudhary, Nabeela Anwar, Iftikhar Ahmad, Chi-Min Shu,
Intelligent exogenous networks with Bayesian distributed backpropagation for nonlinear single delay brain electrical activity rhythms in Parkinson's disease system,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 145,
2025,
110281,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2025.110281.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197625002817)
Abstract: In this study, a novel intelligent adaptive exogenous network backpropagated with a Bayesian distributive scheme is introduced for nonlinear Parkinson's disease systems (NPDS) represented with three differential classes governing the brain's electrical activity rhythms (BEAR) at different cerebral cortex positions considering single and multiple delays in one continuing response. The computing structure is formulated with a multi-layer architecture of nonlinear autoregressive exogenous networks (NARX) with backpropagation through a Bayesian distributed algorithm (BDA). The synthetic datasets for the execution of NARX-BDA are acquired through the Adams numerical solver for NPDS involving single and multiple delays in one variable of BEAR for different sensor locations on the cerebral cortex. The designed computing structure of NARX-BDA is operated arbitrarily for acquired datasets and used for training samples for network formulation on mean square error (MSE) sense while testing samples to validate the performance on unbiased inputs. The exhaustive numerical experimentation studies are conducted for NARX-BDA in solving delayed variants of NPDS, and comparative studies are carried out through numerical solutions by means of convergence curves on MSE for training and testing instances, absolute error, error histograms, statistical studies on regression and correlation measurements to certify the performance.
Keywords: Bayesian distribution; Exogenous networks; Intelligent computing; Parkinson's disease

Stefano Luca Sensi, Matteo Alessandro De Rosa, Mirella Russo, Astrid Thomas, Marco Onofrj,
Time to add two new disorders to neuropsychiatric aspects of Parkinson’s disease,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 13,
2025,
100358,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2025.100358.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112525000623)
Abstract: Recent reviews have explored Parkinson’s Disease (PD) through psychiatric lenses. However, emerging literature allows to go beyond psychosis, depression, and impulse control disorders. Two key emerging themes are prominent: firstly, studies accrued in the past 13 years challenge prevailing views by demonstrating Somatic Symptom Disorders/Somatoform Disorders (SSD-SD) significantly participate in the PD phenotype, with relevant treatment implications. Secondly, epidemiological data reveal a link between Bipolar Spectrum Disorders (BSD) and PD, prompting a reconsideration of Impulse Control Disorder/Hedonistic Homeostatic Dysregulation (ICD/HHD) in PD. Furthermore, behaviors akin to BSD symptoms during manic states are observed in PD, suggesting shared neurobiological underpinnings. Our proposed review tackles these themes, dissecting the impact of SSD-SD on PD and highlighting the BSD-PD convergence. This approach has implications for tailored psychotherapeutic techniques targeting psychosomatic and functional neurologic disorders within the context of PD care. Moreover, recognizing the blurred lines between neurology and psychiatry in PD underscores the importance of a holistic, interdisciplinary approach. As these findings challenge established assumptions and offer new avenues for patient care, we must promote our understanding of PD’s intricate neuropsychiatric dimensions.
Keywords: Parkinson’s Disease; Neuropsychiatric Disorders; Somatic Symptom Disorders; Bipolar Spectrum Disorders

Rani Kumari, Prakash Ramachandran,
Novel multistage deep convolution neural network-based Parkinson’s disease detection and severity grading of running speech using LSF spectrums for detection and STFT spectrums for grading,
Results in Engineering,
Volume 27,
2025,
106642,
ISSN 2590-1230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2025.106642.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590123025027094)
Abstract: In speech analysis-based Parkinson’s disease (PD) classification, unlike binary classification very small number of research had been focused on multiclass classification of severity grading of PD. In this paper, a novel scheme is proposed in which convolution neural network (CNN) learning on line spectral frequency (LSF) spectrum is proposed for PD detection and CNN learning on short time Fourier transform (STFT) spectrum is proposed for PD severity grading. To justify the proposed scheme, the Kings college London (KCL) running speech PD dataset that consists of speech recordings of PD with severity level labelled using Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)-III-18 standard and Healthy control in the form of read text and spontaneous dialogues is used. The dataset is arranged in 10 different combinations that includes 4 binary classification detection problem and 6 multiclass classification severity grading problem and CNN learning experiments are conducted using LSF, STFT and Mel frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCC) spectrums. The numerical implementation reveals that CNN learning on LSF speech spectrum outperforms the CNN learning that is done on both STFT and MFCC spectrums for all 4 binary class combinations with the best validation accuracy of 87.50 %. The other important inference made is that CNN learning of STFT spectrums performs the best for severity grading in all 6 multiclass combinations and the best validation accuracy is 93.75 % for a three class PD severity grading problem which is a very high validation accuracy achieved and as per comparison it is inferred that the method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Deep convolution neural network; Grading, Line spectral frequency; Mel frequency cepstral co-efficient; Short time Fourier transform

Harshitha Kamal Kannan, M R Pooja, Vinayakumar Ravi,
Predictive Analysis of Parkinson's Disease Using Machine Learning,
The Open Bioinformatics Journal,
Volume 18,
2025,
,
ISSN 1875-0362,
https://doi.org/10.2174/0118750362361900250312054436.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875036225000020)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease is one of the major nerve disorders that affect physical movement, which leads to tremors in individuals above 50 years of age. The affected individual will face walking and speech difficulties. According to the Parkinson Foundation, about 0.3% of the human population is affected across the globe. WHO reported that Parkinson’s disease affects a large population of about 10 million people worldwide. Patients left untreated with timely medication will lead to fatal neurological functional disorders. Due to environmental changes, food habits, and lifestyle, the number of people affected by this disease is gradually increasing.
Aim
This study aimed to predict Parkinson’s disease using speech signals and applying various AI techniques and identify the research gaps to improve the treatment efficiency with respect to detection rate and cost.
Objective
The objective of this study was to efficiently predict Parkinson’s disease using shallow learning AI algorithms, such as Support Vector Machine, XGBoost, and Multilayer Perceptron Deep Neural Networks algorithms under limited patient data with the aid of efficient feature selection algorithms like Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) for selecting the most distinguishing features.
Methods
The dataset containing speech samples was obtained from the UCI repository, which included samples from 188 individuals. The data preprocessing involved the application of the Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique (SMOTE), and a comparative study of PCA and ANOVA was carried out to select the optimal features. Then, the algorithms SVM, XGBoost, and DNN were employed.
Result
When PCA was used for dimensionality reduction, DNN and XGBoost demonstrated higher accuracy, but SVM exhibited lower runtime. On the other hand, when ANOVA was applied for dimensionality reduction, all three algorithms showed good accuracy, with DNN proving more efficient for a smaller number of features.
Conclusion
All the algorithms, when combined with both dimensionality reduction techniques, exhibited an average accuracy of 97%. In comparison, the ANOVA feature selection technique led to shorter training times compared to PCA. However, PCA resulted in a comparatively fewer number of optimal features for all three algorithms, which resulted in the trade-off between the number of optimal features and training times. Therefore, to increase the efficiency of decision-making for improved disease detection, there is a need to explore multimodal and multi-objective approaches.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease detection; Speech-based data analysis; Feature selection; Multi-modal analysis; Multi-objective analysis; Nerve disorders

Nianhua Feng, Xiaoxi Huang, Yanjun Jia,
Small extracellular vesicles from adipose derived stem cells alleviate microglia activation and improve motor deficit of Parkinson's disease via miR-100-5p/DTX3L/STAT1 signaling axis,
Experimental Neurology,
Volume 389,
2025,
115250,
ISSN 0014-4886,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115250.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014488625001141)
Abstract: Dopaminergic neuron loss caused by microglia activation is an important pathological factor of Parkinson's disease (PD). Previously, we reported that small extracellular vesicle from adipose derived stem cells (ADSC-sEVs) could inhibit the activation of microglia and protect neuron apoptosis from microglia activation. However, whether ADSC-sEVs have protective effect on the motor deficit of PD mouse and the exact mechanism remains unknown. In this study, ADSC-sEVs were delivered to experimental model of Parkinson's disease by tail vein injection to explore the in vivo effect of ADSC-sEVs on PD. Next, the potential key microRNA in ADSC-sEVs was screened by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and the exact mechanism was further explored. We found that ADSC-sEVs greatly alleviated the activation of microglia and reduced the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of PD mice, the motor deficit was also significantly improved. By RNA-seq analysis, miR-100-5p was verified as a potential microRNA in this process, because knockdown of miR-100-5p in ADSC-sEVs weakened the protective effect of ADSC-sEVs on PD mouse as well as the anti-inflammatory effect on microglia activation. Finally, we found that miR-100-5p could target Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3 L (DTX3L) and suppress its expression, which then decreased the expression and phosphorylation of Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription 1 (STAT1), as well as alleviating the activation of microglia. Our findings illustrate that ADSC-sEVs are an effective therapy for PD, and it could be a promising therapy for the treatment of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Microglia; Small extracellular vesicle; Adipose derived stem cell; MiR-100-5p; DTX3L

Seungbeom Seo, Sunmin Kim, Sung-Phil Kim, Jaeho Kim, Suk Yun Kang, Dongil Chung,
Low-frequency EEG power and coherence differ between drug-induced parkinsonism and Parkinson’s disease,
Clinical Neurophysiology,
Volume 168,
2024,
Pages 131-138,
ISSN 1388-2457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinph.2024.10.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1388245724003183)
Abstract: Objective
Drug-induced parkinsonism (DIP) ranks second to Parkinson’s disease (PD) in causing parkinsonism. Despite sharing similar symptoms, DIP results from exposure to specific medications or substances, underscoring the need for accurate diagnosis. Here, we used resting-state electroencephalography (rsEEG) to investigate neural markers characterizing DIP and PD.
Methods
We conducted a retrospective analysis of rsEEG recordings from 18 DIP patients, 43 de novo PD patients, and 12 healthy controls (HC). After exclusions, data from 15 DIP, 41 PD, and 12 HC participants were analyzed. EEG spectral power and inter-channel coherence were compared across the groups.
Results
Our results demonstrated significant differences in rsEEG patterns among DIP, PD, and HC groups. DIP patients exhibited increased theta band power compared with PD patients and HC. Moreover, DIP patients showed higher delta band coherence compared with PD patients.
Conclusion
The current study highlights the differences in EEG spectral power and inter-channel coherence between DIP and PD patients.
Significance
Our results suggest that rsEEG holds promise as a valuable tool for capturing differential characteristics between DIP and PD patients.
Keywords: Drug-induced parkinsonism; Resting-state EEG; Neural marker

Houman Homayoun, Michael R. DeChellis-Marks, Julia Kofler, Gabriella Fricklas, Amanda M. Gleixner, Fang-Cheng Yeh, David Lacomis, Charleen T. Chu, Christopher J. Donnelly,
Novel Kinesin Family Member 1A Variants Linked to Atypical Parkinsonism Elicit Altered Neuronal Transactive Response DNA Binding Protein 43 kDa Interactions and Dendritic Atrophy,
The American Journal of Pathology,
2025,
,
ISSN 0002-9440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajpath.2025.05.018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0002944025002044)
Abstract: Analysis of induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)–derived neurons from the son of a father-son pair with novel familial variants of uncertain significance in kinesin family member 1A (KIF1A) [c.408C>G (p.Asp136Glu); c.3914G>A (p.Arg1305His)] reveal pathologic features of altered transactive response DNA binding protein 43 kDa (TDP-43) localization, interactions, and stunted dendritic arbors. Both patients developed spasticity and parkinsonism in their mid-60s, with the father dying at age 70 years. There was impaired putamenal dopamine uptake with preserved uptake in the caudate nuclei, and decreased anisotropy by tractography in multiple motor pathways. Given shared transcriptional mechanisms of hindbrain and spinal cord developmental patterning among neurons of the motor circuitry, iPSC-derived motor neurons from fibroblasts donated by the son were generated to investigate the impact of KIF1A mutations on TDP-43 subcellular localization, biochemical interactions of endogenous wild type and mutant KIF1A and endogenous TDP-43, and the pathologic impact of these KIF1A variants on dendritic arborization using Sholl analysis. Neuropathologic assessment of the father, who shared the same KIF1A variants, revealed tauopathy and TDP-43 proteinopathy throughout the brainstem. Quantitative imaging of patient iPSC neurons identified TDP-43 mislocalization to the soma and dendritic atrophy. The KIF1A mutant also elicited decreased biochemical interactions of both itself and TDP-43 with a spectrum of known TDP-43–associated proteins. These data suggest that this novel KIF1A mutant mediates altered TDP-43 interactions, stunting of the synaptic architecture, and clinical phenotypes coincident with neurodegenerative movement disorders.

Zhaohan Xu, Hucheng Chen, Guoyan Zheng, Wei Zhang, Jing Wang, Jian Zhang, Qing Gao, Jun Wu, Xue Xue,
Plasma trimethylamine N-oxide, carnitine, choline, and betaine distinguish cognition impairment in Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 135,
2025,
107844,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107844.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025005851)
Abstract: Background
Trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) and its precursors, as intestinal metabolites, have already been explored in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, whether such an association reflects the risk of cognitive impairment (CI) remains unclear. The purpose of this research is to analyze the diagnostic value of TMAO and its precursors in the detection of PD-related CI.
Methods
Using high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, plasma TMAO and its precursors were detected from 220 healthy controls (HC) and 234 PD patients who underwent cognitive function assessment. 162 PD patients were enrolled in normal cognitive function group (PD-NCI), while 72 in cognitive impairment group (PD-CI). The expression levels of TMAO and its precursors were compared across different groups. The research carried out logistic regression analysis and built receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves to assess the diagnostic utility of TMAO and its precursors.
Results
Compared to HC, there were higher expression levels of TMAO and precursor carnitine and betaine in the PD and PD-CI groups (p < 0.001). A higher plasma TMAO level exists in PD-CI compared to that of PD-NCI (p < 0.001). After adjusting for differentiating variables, logistic regression analysis substantiated the findings. The combination of TMAO and its precursors demonstrated fine predictive value with high sensitivity and specificity with areas under the ROC curve (AUCs) of 0.880, 0.707, and 0.941 for distinguishing between PD and HC, PD-NCI and PD-CI, and PD-CI and HC, respectively.
Conclusion
TMAO and its metabolic precursors are potential biomarkers for early identification of cognitive dysfunction, offering timely opportunities for intervention in PD patients.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Trimethylamine N-Oxide; Biomarkers; Cognitive impairment

Dacong Zhao, Jiang Guo, Guanghua Lu, Rui Jiang, Chao Tian, Xu Liang,
MRI-based differentiation of Parkinson's disease by cerebellar gray matter volume,
SLAS Technology,
Volume 31,
2025,
100260,
ISSN 2472-6303,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.slast.2025.100260.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2472630325000184)
Abstract: Background
The underlying mechanism of Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with the neurodegeneration of the dopaminergic neurons, and the cerebellum plays a significant role together in non-motor and motor functions in PD progression. Morphological changes in the cerebellum can greatly impact patients' clinical symptoms, especially motor control symptoms, and may also help distinguish patients from healthy subjects. This study aimed to explore the potential of cerebellar gray matter volume, related to motor control function, as a neuroimaging biomarker to classify patients with PD and healthy controls (HC) by using voxel-based morphometric (VBM) measurements and support vector machine (SVM) methods based on independent component analysis (ICA).
Methods
Cerebellar gray matter volume was measured using VBM in patients with PD (n = 27) and HC (n = 16) from the Neurocon dataset. ICA analysis was performed on the gray matter volume of all subregions, resulting in 7 independent components. These independent components were then utilized for correlation analysis with clinical scales and trained as input features for the SVM model. PD patients (n = 20) and HC (n = 20) from the TaoWu dataset were used as test data to validate our SVM model.
Results
Among patients with PD, 3 out of the 7 independent components showed a significant correlation with clinical scales. The SVM model achieved an accuracy of 86 % in classifying PD patients and HC, with a sensitivity of 72.2 %, specificity of 88 %, and F1 Score of 76.5 %. The accuracy of the SVM model verification analysis using the TaoWu dataset was 70 %, with a sensitivity of 62.5 %, a specificity of 100 %, and the F1 Score was 76.9 %.
Conclusions
The results suggest that abnormal cerebellar gray matter volume, which is highly correlated with motor control function in Parkinson's patients, may serve as a valuable neuroimaging biomarker capable of distinguishing Parkinson's patients from healthy individuals. We observed that the combination of the ICA method and the SVM method produced an improved classification model. This model may function as an early warning tool that enables clinicians to conduct preliminary identification and intervention for patients with PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's Disease; Cerebellum; Voxel-based Morphometry; Independent Component Analysis; Support Vector Machine

Su Yan, Jun Lu, Bingfang Duan, Shun Zhang, Dong Liu, Yuanyuan Qin, Alexey V. Dimov, Junghun Cho, Yuanhao Li, Wenzhen Zhu, Yi Wang,
Potential separation of multiple system atrophy and Parkinson’s disease by susceptibility-derived components,
NeuroImage,
Volume 318,
2025,
121241,
ISSN 1053-8119,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2025.121241.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811925002447)
Abstract: Background
Substantial evidence emphasizes the dysregulation of iron homeostasis, demyelination and oxidative stress in the neurodegenerative process of multiple system atrophy (MSA) and Parkinson’s disease (PD), although its clinical implications remain unclear. Recent MRI post-processing techniques leveraging magnetic susceptibility properties provide a noninvasive means to characterize iron, myelin content and oxygen metabolism alterations. This study aims to investigate subcortical alterations of susceptibility-derived metrics in these two synucleinopathies.
Methods
A cohort comprising 180 patients (122 with PD and 58 with MSA) and 77 healthy controls (HCs) underwent clinical evaluation and multi-echo gradient echo MRI scans. Susceptibility source separation, susceptibility-based oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) mapping and semiautomatic subcortical nuclei segmentation were utilized to derive parametric values of deep gray matter in all subjects.
Results
MSA patients showed markedly elevated paramagnetic susceptibility values in the putamen, globus pallidus (GP) and thalamus; increased diamagnetic susceptibility values in the putamen and dentate nucleus; and reduced OEF values across all nuclei compared with PD patients and HCs. Whereas PD exhibited increased positive susceptibility values in the substantia nigra and enhancing negative values in the GP, similar to MSA. Notably, age-related reductions in OEF were evident in HCs, which was altered by the MSA pathology. Paramagnetic susceptibility was correlated with disease severity. Moreover, the susceptibility-derived metrics of striatum and midbrain nuclei proved to be effective predictors to distinguish PD from MSA (AUC = 0.833).
Conclusion
Susceptibility-derived metrics could detect pathological involvement distinct to each disease, offering significant potential for differentiating between MSA and PD in clinical settings.
Keywords: Multiple system atrophy; Parkinson’s disease; Iron deposition; Demyelination; Oxygen extraction fraction

Wei-ye Xie, Wen-xiang Duan, Ying Chen, Meng-xing Tao, Han-xing Li, Fan Gao, Jie-yun Yin, Jia-hui Yan, Fen Wang, Cheng-jie Mao, Yun Shen, Chun-feng Liu,
The impact of bright light therapy on Parkinson's disease: A pilot study using vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 134,
2025,
107776,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107776.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025005176)
Abstract: Introduction
Bright light therapy (BLT) has been proved to have beneficial effects on Parkinson's disease (PD). Brainstem pathways improvements might be crucial to BLT, but the mechanisms remained unclear. The aim of this study is to validate whether BLT improves clinical symptoms in PD and thus explore the possible mechanisms of brainstem pathways evaluated by vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials (VEMPs).
Methods
A total of 22 PD patients participated were enrolled in this crossover randomized placebo-controlled study. Participants received either one month of BLT or dim light therapy (DLT), separated by a 1-month wash-out period, and underwent clinical scales and VEMPs evaluations before and after each intervention. Mixed-effects regression models were used to determine the effect between BLT and DLT on PD patients by the differentials of clinical scales (Δscales) and VEMPs (ΔVEMPs). Correlations between the improvement of clinical symptoms and VEMPs parameters improvements were analyzed in PD patients receiving BLT.
Results
Excessive daytime sleepiness, anxiety, life quality and autonomic function were improved after BLT. Compared to DLT, the difference was not significant. There were significant differences of cervical VEMPs (cVEMP) and ocular VEMPs (oVEMP) peak latencies after BLT. Compared with DLT, there was significant difference in ΔLp13, ΔRp13 and ΔLp11 peak latencies after BLT.
Conclusions
BLT may be a valuable non-pharmacological intervention for improving brainstem function, thereby enhancing quality of life and overall health in PD patients.
Keywords: Vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials; Parkinson's disease; Bright light therapy; Randomized crossover controlled trial

Heather Lasseter, Allison Provost, Nikolaos Daskalakis, Lauren Chaby, Magali Haas, Andreas Jeromin,
Cross-Platform Comparison of Immunoassay Technologies to Assess Cytokine Markers in Patients With Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and Parkinson’s Disease,
Biological Psychiatry,
Volume 87, Issue 9, Supplement,
2020,
Page S378,
ISSN 0006-3223,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2020.02.968.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006322320310805)

Jacob C. Slack, Benjamin Rees, Eleonora Borda, Jonah Slack, Miguel A.L. Nicolelis, S. Elizabeth Zauber, Kunal Gupta, Amol P. Yadav,
Spinal cord stimulation restores locomotion in a Parkinson's disease patient and rodents,
Brain Stimulation,
Volume 18, Issue 5,
2025,
Pages 1407-1422,
ISSN 1935-861X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brs.2025.07.020.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1935861X25002931)
Abstract: Introduction
Dorsal column stimulation (DCS) of the spinal cord is emerging as a promising new technology to treat Parkinson's disease (PD). However, optimal stimulation settings that maximize its therapeutic effect on PD symptoms are yet to be determined. To optimize DCS therapy, it is necessary to understand its impact on pathological brain oscillations and to deliver stimulation triggered by neurophysiological biomarkers of PD.
Materials and methods
We developed beta-triggered DCS (BT-DCS), where DCS was triggered by ongoing corticostriatal beta oscillations, and tested it in the bilateral intra-striatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat model of PD. To evaluate the translational potential of DCS in humans, we recorded local field potentials (LFPs) from bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) electrodes in a sixty-year-old PD subject with freezing of gait (FOG) symptoms before and three days after implantation of DCS leads.
Results
DCS triggered by corticostriatal beta oscillations facilitated a pro-locomotion brain state that improved locomotion, reduced akinesia, and desynchronized ongoing oscillations in the rat model. BT-DCS achieved higher efficacy with less overall charge delivery than continuous stimulation. In the PD subject, DCS increased gait velocity and stride length, reduced freezing episodes, and desynchronized subthalamic nucleus (STN) beta oscillations, while modulating phase-amplitude coupling (PAC). When applied simultaneously with deep brain stimulation (DBS), DCS had a combinatory effect on gait improvement.
Conclusion
Based on the effective implementation of BT-DCS in modulating supraspinal pathological brain activity in rats, we envision that incorporating a brain biomarker signal in delivering DCS therapy in humans could improve relief from Parkinsonian gait issues.
Keywords: Spinal cord stimulation; Parkinson's disease; Movement disorders; Freezing of gait; Dorsal column stimulation; Deep brain stimulation; Beta oscillations

Jiarui Zhao, Yuan Peng, Zhenfang Lin, Yulai Gong,
Association between Mediterranean diet adherence and Parkinson's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis,
The Journal of nutrition, health and aging,
Volume 29, Issue 2,
2025,
100451,
ISSN 1279-7707,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnha.2024.100451.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1279770724005396)
Abstract: Background and aims
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder, and past research suggests that adherence to the Mediterranean diet (MD) may influence the risk of PD. However, there are varying conclusions among different studies regarding the correlation between long-term adherence to the MD and the occurrence of PD. This meta-analysis aimed to investigate the association between MD adherence and PD incidence.
Methods
This meta-analysis was registered on PROSPERO (CRD42024520410). We searched PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and Cochrane databases to identify observational studies, including prospective cohorts, case-control, and cross-sectional studies, up to February 2024. Studies reported on MD adherence were included, with MD adherence categorized through a quantifying score or index. The pool odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated for the highest versus the lowest categories of MD score in relation to PD risk, using random-effects models. Additionally, bias assessment, heterogeneity assessment, sensitivity analysis, and subgroup analysis were performed. A total of 12 studies were included in the meta-analysis.
Results
The overall effect size of PD risk was as follows: compared to the lowest adherence to the MD, the highest adherence to MD showed a significant negative correlation with the incidence of PD, with an overall OR of 0.75 (95% CI: 0.66, 0.84). Specifically, in studies diagnosing PD, the overall OR was 0.83 (95% CI: 0.74, 0.94), while in studies diagnosing prodromal Parkinson's disease (pPD), the overall OR was 0.67 (95%CI: 0.59, 0.76). For individuals aged <60 years, the overall OR was 0.70 (95%CI: 0.62, 0.78), whereas, for those aged ≥60 years, the overall OR was 0.86 (95%CI: 0.74, 0.99).
Conclusions
The evidence from this meta-analysis demonstrates a significant negative correlation between adherence to MD patterns and the risk of PD, suggesting that the MD may serve as a protective factor for PD. This dietary pattern may be particularly beneficial in reducing the risk of pPD.
Keywords: Mediterranean diet; Nutrition; Parkinson's disease; Meta-analysis

Yu-Fan Lin, Jong-Ling Fuh, Albert C. Yang,
Unsupervised subtyping of motor dysfunction of Parkinson's disease and its structural brain imaging correlates,
NeuroImage: Reports,
Volume 5, Issue 1,
2025,
100246,
ISSN 2666-9560,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ynirp.2025.100246.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666956025000145)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a clinical neurodegenerative disorder. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) has been used as a standard measure of the PD symptom profile, and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is widely used for identifying the critical brain regions involved in PD progression.
Objectives
The present study aimed to (1) identify PD subtypes based on the motor dysfunction profile in the MDS-UPDRS and (2) find the differences in gray matter volumes of brain regions, and (3) compare non-motor features between the subtypes to explore their distinct clinical profiles.
Methods
In total, 299 patients with PD and 173 healthy participants from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative were included. A software package, Generalized Association Plots, was used to cluster the motor dysfunction profile in the MDS-UPDRS. Regression models and the Artificial Intelligence Platform as a Service were used to quantify the differences in gray matter volume of brain regions between subtypes.
Results
We identified three PD subtypes—resting tremor, intermediate, and akinetic-rigid—using motor symptom clustering. MRI analysis revealed significant differences in brain regions, including the posterior cingulate gyrus, lenticular nucleus, olfactory cortex, and cerebellum. Non-motor features, such as cognitive decline and autonomic dysfunctions, varied across subtypes, highlighting distinct systemic profiles. Akinetic-rigid patients exhibited the most severe impairments, while tremor-dominant patients showed milder non-motor symptoms.
Discussion
Three PD subtypes of motor dysfunction were identified. Structural brain imaging revealed subtype-specific differences not only in cingulum and putamen regions, but also in the olfactory cortex, parahippocampal gyrus, and cerebellum, correlating with motor symptoms. Non-motor features varied by subtype, with increasing severity from tremor-dominant to akinetic-rigid.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Motor dysfunction subtypes; Structural brain imaging; Machine learning

M.R. Hamed, M.A. Kenawy, S. Mohamed, M. El-Samahy, K.T. Ereiba, A. Eissa,
Fast susceptibility-weighted imaging using echo planar imaging at 1.5 T for swallow tail sign biomarker detection in Parkinson's disease,
Radiography,
Volume 31, Issue 2,
2025,
102903,
ISSN 1078-8174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radi.2025.102903.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1078817425000446)
Abstract: Introduction
This study evaluated the feasibility and diagnostic accuracy of a fast-imaging technique combining Echo Planar Imaging (EPI) and Susceptibility-Weighted Imaging (SWI) at 1.5 T for visualizing the Swallow Tail Sign (STS) in Parkinson's Disease (PD). The STS, a biomarker linked to PD pathogenesis, offers promise for non-invasive diagnosis. However, conventional SWI often requires high field strengths and lengthy scan times, limiting accessibility. This study aimed to provide a faster, more practical alternative for PD diagnosis.
Methods
A prospective study included 130 participants (22 early-stage PD, 108 healthy controls [HC]) recruited consecutively from a neurology clinic. Eligibility required freedom from MRI contraindications. A fast EPI-SWI sequence was employed as the primary diagnostic tool, with Movement Disorder Society criteria serving as the reference standard. Diagnostic measures, including sensitivity, specificity, predictive values, and the area under the ROC curve (AUC), were calculated.
Results
After excluding participants with motion artifacts or suboptimal image quality, 120 participants (20 PD, 100 HC) were included in the analysis. The fast EPI-SWI technique demonstrated 100 % sensitivity, 96 % specificity, a positive predictive value (PPV) of 83.3 %, and a negative predictive value (NPV) of 100 %. The AUC for diagnostic accuracy was 0.98.
Conclusion
The fast EPI-SWI sequence at 1.5 T achieved high diagnostic accuracy for detecting the STS, offering a practical solution for early PD diagnosis in settings with limited access to high-field MRI.
Implications for practice
The use of EPI SWI for detecting the Swallow Tail Sign could provide a faster and more accessible method for early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease in clinical settings, particularly in resource-limited environments.
Keywords: Susceptibility weighted imaging; Echo planner imaging; Parkinson disease; Swallow tail sign; Fast imaging

Ni Liu, Tianjiao Zhang, Wei Zhao, Xuechao Zhao, Yuan Xue, Qihong Deng,
Current trends in blood biomarkers detection and neuroimaging for Parkinson's disease,
Ageing Research Reviews,
Volume 104,
2025,
102658,
ISSN 1568-1637,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2025.102658.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568163725000042)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by both motor and cognitive impairments. A significant challenge in managing PD is the variability of symptoms and disease progression rates. This variability is primarily attributed to unclear biomarkers associated with the disease and the lack of early diagnostic technologies and effective imaging methods. PD-specific biomarkers are essential for developing practical tools that facilitate accurate diagnosis, patient stratification, and monitoring of disease progression. Hence, creating valuable tools for detecting and diagnosing PD based on specific biomarkers is imperative. Blood testing, less invasive than obtaining cerebrospinal fluid through a lumbar puncture, is an ideal source for these biomarkers. Although such biomarkers were previously lacking, recent advancements in various detection techniques related to PD biomarkers and new imaging methods have emerged. However, basic research requires more detailed guidelines on effectively implementing these biomarkers in diagnostic procedures to enhance the diagnostic accuracy of PD blood testing in clinical practice. This review discusses the developmental trends of PD-related blood biomarker detection technologies, including optical analysis platforms. Despite the progress in developing various biomarkers for PD, their specificity and sensitivity remain suboptimal. Therefore, the integration of multimodal biomarkers along with optical and imaging technologies is likely to significantly improve diagnostic accuracy and facilitate the implementation of personalized medicine. This review forms valid research hypotheses for PD research and guides future empirical studies.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Blood biomarkers; Diagnosis; Imaging

Nicholas D. Burt, Karl Arabian, J. Scott Parrott, Rosemary Gallagher,
Practical clinical measures highlight cognition-balance associations in Parkinson's disease,
Gait & Posture,
Volume 120,
2025,
Pages 53-59,
ISSN 0966-6362,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gaitpost.2025.04.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S096663622500164X)
Abstract: Introduction
Cognitive impairment in people with Parkinson’s disease (PD) is associated with balance deficits and fall risk. Despite this, cognition is not routinely assessed by rehabilitation professionals. Establishing associations between specific domains of balance and cognition in PD using practical clinical measures could help inform evaluation and intervention by clinicians.
Research Question
Is there a relationship between subsections of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and Mini Balance Evaluation Systems Test (MiniBESTest) in people with PD that could inform clinical practice?
Methods
One hundred and eight participants were included in this cross-sectional study (83.3 % male, mean age 70 ± 8.3). Motor function, balance, and cognition were assessed using the Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale Part III: Motor Examination, MiniBESTest, and MoCA, respectively. Pearson correlations, Spearman’s rho correlations, and multiple regression analysis were used to assess relationships.
Results
Statistically significant positive correlations were found between MoCA and MiniBESTest total and subsection scores. The strongest correlation between domains of balance and cognition was between MoCA Delayed Recall and MiniBESTest Dynamic Gait (rho=0.441, p < 0.001), which were also the strongest predictors of performance on the other measure (the MiniBESTest and MoCA, respectively).
Significance
Associations between domains of balance and cognition in PD can be demonstrated without a full battery of cognitive tests. The MoCA (an easy-to-use measure of global cognition) and MiniBESTest (a commonly used balance measure for PD) are sensitive to these associations and easily incorporated into clinical practice. Alternatively, delayed recall and dynamic gait can be quickly assessed and have potential as fall risk screens themselves. These associations could be used to inform both dual task and cognitive training in PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Gait; Balance; Cognition; MoCA; MiniBESTest; Physical therapy

Dana Pourzinal, Charlotte Elgey, Daniel X. Bailey, Jihyun Yang, Alexander Lehn, Helen Tinson, Jacki Liddle, Deborah Brooks, Sharon L. Naismith, Kirstine Shrubsole, Rodney Marsh, Leander K. Mitchell, Nancy A. Pachana, James King, Nadeeka N. Dissanayaka,
Diagnosis, evaluation & management of cognitive disorders in Parkinson’s disease: A systematic review,
International Psychogeriatrics,
2025,
100081,
ISSN 1041-6102,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100081.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1041610225003199)
Abstract: Background
There is considerable variability in the diagnosis, evaluation and management of cognitive disorders in Parkinson's disease (PD) across clinical services. A review of guidelines and relevant literature will provide recommendations to guide clinical decision-making. The present review aimed to summarise and critically appraise current recommendations for the diagnosis, evaluation and management of cognitive disorders in PD.
Method
Five academic databases (PubMed, SCOPUS, Medline, PsycINFO, CINAHL) and five grey literature databases were systematically searched in August 2024 by two independent reviewers following PRISMA guidelines. Guidelines and systematic reviews from 2003–2024 available in English and reporting at least one relevant recommendation for the diagnosis, evaluation or management of cognitive disorders in PD were included. Quality assessment was completed using the AGREE-II tool for guidelines and AMSTAR tool for systematic reviews.
Results
In total, 32 guidelines and 24 systematic reviews were included. Guideline quality ranged from moderate to high and systematic review quality from critically low to high. Articles provided recommendations for cognitive impairment in PD in terms of diagnosis, neuropsychological evaluation, treatment and care. However, recommendations for cognitive tools, care considerations, and non-pharmacological interventions were limited, despite relevant evidence from the systematic review literature.
Conclusion
Significant gaps identified in processes for neuropsychological evaluations, inconsistent recommendations for non-pharmacological interventions, and limited care considerations calls for future iterations of the clinical practice guidelines for cognitive impairment in PD.
Keywords: Cognition disorders; Dementia; Diagnosis; Parkinson disease; Guideline

Lipeng Cai, Yuchuan Ding, Abdullah Al Tekreeti, Fengwu Li, Yuequan Zhu, Xiaokun Geng, Xunming Ji,
Remote ischemic conditioning as a potential therapy for Parkinson’s Disease: Inhibiting TLR4-Driven neuroinflammation and oxidative damage,
Brain Research,
Volume 1866,
2025,
149920,
ISSN 0006-8993,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149920.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899325004834)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson’s disease (PD), the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, affects over 7.5 million individuals worldwide and imposes a substantial financial burden. Exercise (EXE) has demonstrated efficacy in improving motor symptoms of PD; however, its application is limited by motor symptoms such as bradykinesia, rigidity, gait instability, and fatigue, which reduce patient tolerance and adherence. This highlights the need for accessible, non-invasive alternatives with similar efficacy. Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC), a low-cost, non-invasive intervention, has shown neuroprotective effects in stroke and cognitive impairment and may offer comparable benefits without these limitations. This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy of RIC versus EXE in a PD mouse model.
Methods
PD was induced in mice using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) injections (30 mg/kg) for 5 days. Mice were assigned to four groups: Control, PD, EXE, and RIC. EXE involved treadmill training (30 mins, twice a day for 14 days), while RIC consisted of repeated limb ischemia–reperfusion cycles (3 occlusion–reperfusion cycles, for 14 days). Motor performance was assessed using rota-rod and open field tests. Neuroinflammatory markers, microglial activation, and oxidative stress were analyzed via immunofluorescence, ELISA, and Western blot.
Results
Both RIC and EXE significantly improved motor function and attenuated dopaminergic neurodegeneration. These interventions reduced α-synuclein accumulation and restored tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression. Additionally, both interventions suppressed microglial activation, decreased iNOS/Iba-1 and IL-1β/Iba-1 expression, and downregulated the TLR4/NF-κB pathway and associated proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α). RIC and EXE also alleviated NOX-driven oxidative stress.
Conclusion
RIC and EXE provide comparable neuroprotective effects in PD by suppressing TLR4-mediated neuroinflammation and oxidative damage. Given its non-invasive, low-cost nature and ease of administration, RIC may represent a promising rehabilitation strategy for patients with limited access to or tolerance for exercise-based therapies.
Keywords: Neurodegeneration; Exercise rehabilitation; Inflammatory Response; Oxidative Stress; Non-invasive Therapy; Microglial Activation

Sara Khan, Md. Faheem Haider,
A Comprehensive Review on Repurposing the Nanocarriers for the Treatment of Parkinson’s Disease: An Updated Patent and Clinical Trials,
CNS & Neurological Disorders - Drug Targets,
Volume 24, Issue 3,
2025,
Pages 181-195,
ISSN 1871-5273,
https://doi.org/10.2174/0118715273323074241001071645.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1871527325000108)
Abstract: Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder marked by the deterioration of dopamine-producing neurons, resulting in motor impairments like tremors and rigidity. While the precise cause remains elusive, genetic and environmental factors are implicated. Mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and protein misfolding contribute to the disease's pathology. Current therapeutics primarily aim at symptom alleviation, employing dopamine replacement and deep brain stimulation. However, the quest for disease-modifying treatments persists. Ongoing clinical trials explore novel approaches, such as neuroprotective agents and gene therapies, reflecting the evolving PD research landscape. This review provides a comprehensive overview of PD, covering its basics, causal factors, major pathways, existing treatments, and a nuanced exploration of ongoing clinical trials. As the scientific community strives to unravel PD's complexities, this review offers insights into the multifaceted strategies pursued for a better understanding and enhanced management of this debilitating condition.
Keywords: Neurodegenerative; dopamine; nanocarriers; patent; Parkinson’ disease; nanoformulations; therapeutics

Baoquan Wen, Xiuzhi Li, Jiafu Xu, Yuqin He, Xiaofeng Lin, Xiujuan Wu, Chaoyin Wu,
The mechanism of SiJunZi decoction in the treatment of Parkinson’s disease,
Brain Research,
Volume 1850,
2025,
149397,
ISSN 0006-8993,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149397.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899324006528)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, but treatment options for PD are limited, and drug development has reached a bottleneck. With the progress of the aging population, the number of PD patients in China is increasing day by day, imposing a heavy burden on patients and society. Therefore, it is urgent to explore targeted medicine based on the pathogenesis of PD and disease targets. Ancient physicians have used the traditional Chinese medicine formula SiJunZi decoction (SJZD) to treat PD. However, it is less commonly used clinically now, and its pharmacological mechanism still needs to be further elucidated. In this study, based on network pharmacology research and molecular docking technology, the mechanism of SJZD in treating PD was revealed, showing that the extract of SJZD acts on cell microdomain membranes and lipid rafts, affecting ubiquitin-protein ligase binding and ubiquitin-like protein ligase binding processes, and plays a role in neurogenesis. Molecular docking results showed that Ellipticine and Hederagenin in SJZD exhibited significant effects on targets: CASP3, BCL2, and PTGS2. The effect of SJZD reversing MPP+-induced SH-SY5Y cells injury was verified by experiments, concentrations ranging from 5ug/mL to 0.1ug/mL showed significant cell protection at 24 h.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; SiJunZi decoction; Network pharmacology; Mechanism; Molecular docking

Jinying Han, Lingling Lv, Xin Chen, Mengqi Wang, Lili Hu, Fengbo Xing, Pingping Liu, Liuzhenxiong Yu, Ziye Zhao, Jinmei Sun, Tingting Liu, Jingjing Cheng, Minhao Zhu, Manman Gao, Gongjun Ji, Rong Ye, Kai Wang, Panpan Hu,
Changes in white matter predict efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in Parkinson's disease,
NeuroImage,
Volume 317,
2025,
121354,
ISSN 1053-8119,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2025.121354.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S105381192500357X)
Abstract: Background
The efficacy of continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) in Parkinson's disease (PD) exhibits considerable variability. Emerging evidence links changes in brain white matter (WM) activity to the onset and progression of PD, offering novel insights into its pathophysiology.
Objective
Exploring activity patterns within different WM regions to predict the therapeutic efficacy of cTBS.
Methods
This retrospective study included 68 patients with PD who underwent a 14-day cTBS targeting the supplementary motor area (25,200 pulses). Patients were classified as responders (R, n = 20) or non-responders (NR, n = 48) based on whether their UPDRS III score improved by ≥30 %. Pre-intervention differences in WM amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) and fractional ALFF in fMRI were analyzed, along with their correlation with motor symptom improvement. A support vector machine (SVM) model was developed to predict cTBS efficacy and validated in an independent cohort (n = 22).
Results
Compared to the NR group, R patients exhibited greater improvements in rigidity and axial symptoms, accompanied by lower baseline ALFF in multiple WM tracts. SVM analysis identified higher baseline UPDRS III and rigidity scores, along with reduced ALFF in the left corticospinal tract, right ILF, and left anterior thalamic radiation, as predictors of better motor outcomes. In an independent cohort, predicted and actual UPDRS III improvements showed a concordance correlation coefficient (CCC) of 0.630. A combined model incorporating rigidity scores and ILF_R ALFF achieved moderate accuracy in predicting rigidity improvement (CCC = 0.725).
Conclusion
Baseline WM function may serve as a biomarker for predicting motor response to cTBS.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Continuous theta burst stimulation; Amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation; Fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation; White matter

Ullas Prakash D’Souza, Chandrashekar Kodangala Subraya, Shruthi Rao, Vasudev Pai,
GCMS Analysis of Bioactive Compounds and Evaluation of Anti-parkinson Activity of Leaf Extract of Curculigo orchioides in Experimental Animals,
Current Bioactive Compounds,
Volume 21, Issue 2,
2025,
,
ISSN 1573-4072,
https://doi.org/10.2174/0115734072285993240403110533.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1573407225000619)
Abstract: Background
Curculigo orchioides Gaertn, a plant belonging to the Hypoxidaceae family, is well-known for its traditional uses of all plant parts. This plant is commonly known as golden eye grass, black musli, Kali musli, or Kali Musali. Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder that is commonly observed in older adults. It is caused by a variety of mechanisms, including neuroinflammation, which results in the loss of dopamine release when triggered and causes motor symptoms.
Methods
Ethanolic extract was prepared by shade-drying the leaves, making them into a coarse powder, and the extract was prepared by maceration technique with the help of ethanol. GCMS analysis and Haloperidol-induced Parkinsonism study were carried out to evaluate the anti-Parkinson activity in albino Wistar rats. Ethanolic extract of Curculigo orchioides was subjected to GCMS analysis. The National Institute of Standards and Technology database was used to interpret the mass spectrum of the GC-MS. The screening models were catalepsy, rotarod and a few in vitro models, namely the estimation of catalase acetylcholinesterase levels. The animals were divided into 6 groups, namely control, disease, standard (levodopa), low dose (100 mg/kg p.o.), medium dose (200 mg/kg p.o.), high dose (400 mg/kg p.o.) groups having 6 animals each were used for rotarod and catalepsy models for 14 days.
Results
The results obtained showed a dose-dependent increase in the anti-Parkinson activity. The evaluation of neuromuscular movements of the ethanolic leaf extract of Curculigo orchioides showed that the pre-treatment with different ranges of dose (100 mg/ml, 200 mg/kg, and 400 mg/kg) suggested a dose-dependent significant increase in fall-off time when compared with both standard and disease groups GCMS analysis revealed the presence of flavonoids, Vitamin and fatty acid esters.
Conclusion
The anti-Parkinson activity of Flavonoids has been reported previously. Hence, the activity may be attributed to kaempferol-3-O-glucuronide.
Keywords: Anti-parkinson activity;  Curculigo orchioides ; ethanolic extract; oxidation; neuroinflammation; SNCA gene

Nicolas Dzamko,
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 biomarkers for Parkinson’s disease,
Biochemical Journal,
Volume 482, Issue 11,
2025,
Pages 709-720,
ISSN 1470-8728,
https://doi.org/10.1042/BCJ20253099.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1470872825000438)
Abstract: Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of neurodegenerative Parkinson’s disease (PD). Data from a multitude of pre-clinical models are supportive of a potential role for LRRK2 therapies to ameliorate cellular dysfunctions found in PD, and small molecules to inhibit LRRK2 kinase activity, as well as antisense oligonucleotides to target the protein itself, are in clinical trials. Despite this, exactly how LRRK2 contributes to PD pathogenesis remains to be determined, and definitive biomarkers to track LRRK2 function are still required. Such biomarkers can be useful for monitoring the pharmacodynamic response of LRRK2 therapeutics and/or understanding the relationship between LRRK2 and the clinical progression of PD. Moreover, biomarkers that can identify increased LRRK2 levels or activity beyond just carriers of pathogenic LRRK2 mutations will be important for expanding LRRK2 therapeutics to other PD populations. This review summarizes recent findings regarding biomarkers of LRRK2.
Keywords: LRRK2; biomarker; lysosome; mitochondria; Rab GTPase

Negin Eissazade, Shayan Eghdami, Mohammad Rohani, Atra Ajdari, Seyed-Mohammad Fereshtehnejad, Alfonso Fasano, Tara Khoeini,
Noninvasive Vagus Nerve Stimulation in Parkinson’s Disease: A Systematic Review,
Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface,
Volume 28, Issue 4,
2025,
Pages 641-651,
ISSN 1094-7159,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurom.2025.01.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S109471592500025X)
Abstract: Background
While pharmacologic interventions remain the mainstay of Parkinson’s disease (PD) treatment, alternative approaches such as vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) have drawn attention for their potential in managing PD symptoms.
Objective
We aimed to conduct a systematic review to comprehensively evaluate the safety and efficacy of VNS for motor and nonmotor symptoms of PD.
Materials and Methods
A systematic search was conducted across PubMed, Scopus, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science for relevant journal articles published up to October 2024. The findings were descriptively reported to evaluate the overall safety and efficacy of VNS in addressing both motor and nonmotor features of PD.
Results
A total of 12 journal articles with data from 287 participants were included. Ten studies reported that VNS significantly improved gait characteristics. Category fluency significantly declined in one study. Additionally, nonsignificant changes were observed in gastroenteric symptoms, fatigue, and both sympathetic and parasympathetic cardiac activity, with each of these outcomes reported in a separate study.
Conclusions
Noninvasive VNS demonstrated favorable safety and efficacy for gait impairments in patients with PD, indicating its potential as a versatile intervention capable of addressing multiple aspects of the disease pathology. However, further research is necessary to reveal the underlying mechanisms, optimize stimulation parameters, and assess the long-term safety and efficacy of VNS as a therapeutic strategy for PD.
Keywords: Parkinsonism; Parkinson’s disease; treatment; vagus nerve stimulation

Victoria Lievens, Hugo J.R. Fernandes,
On the implementation of single-cell omics and CRISPR screens for iPSC-models of Parkinson’s disease,
Brain Organoid and Systems Neuroscience Journal,
Volume 3,
2025,
Pages 73-78,
ISSN 2949-9216,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bosn.2025.04.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2949921625000079)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is currently the fastest growing neurological condition, with an urgent need for effective treatments to slow or stop disease progression. The advent of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) models has significantly enhanced our understanding of PD by providing unprecedented access to disease-relevant cell types. These PD in vitro models have provided novels insights into mitochondrial dysfunction, lysosomal and autophagic dysregulation, protein aggregation, stress response, inflammation and metabolic perturbations. However, cellular heterogeneity and variability across iPSC lines are inherent limitations of these models which are often overlooked. Here we discuss ongoing efforts and opportunities to improve PD models by incorporating recent advancements in single-cell multi-omics analyses. We also highlight the lack of genetic CRISPR screens using iPSC-models of PD and discuss current limitations and prospects. We argue that implementing and combining these tools has the potential to unlock novel insights into the pathological mechanisms of PD that could lead to new therapeutic targets for this devastating disorder.
Keywords: IPSC-neuronal models; Single-cell omics; CRISPR screens

Sarah M. Brooker, Paulina Gonzalez-Latapi,
Biomarkers in Parkinson’s Disease,
Neurologic Clinics,
Volume 43, Issue 2,
2025,
Pages 229-248,
ISSN 0733-8619,
ISBN 9780443131714,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ncl.2024.12.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0733861924001002)
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Biomarker; Alpha-synuclein; Dopamine; Neuromelanin

Marya S. Sabir, Mary B. Makarious, Marjan Huizing, William A. Gahl, Frances M. Platt, May Christine V. Malicdan,
Comprehensive analysis of SLC17A5 variants in large European cohorts reveals no association with Parkinson's disease risk,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 134,
2025,
107790,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107790.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025005310)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dopaminergic neuron loss and α-synuclein aggregation. Aging is the primary risk factor, with both rare and common genetic variants playing a role. Previous studies have implicated lysosomal storage disorder (LSD)-related genes, including SLC17A5, in PD susceptibility.
Objective
This study aimed to investigate the association of SLC17A5 variants, including rare and common variants and the FSASD-associated p.Arg39Cys missense variant, with PD risk in large European ancestry cohorts.
Methods
Rare variant burden analyses were performed at minor allele frequency (MAF) thresholds of ≤1 % and ≤0.1 % in 7,184 PD cases and 51,650 controls using whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing data. Association testing of the p.Arg39Cys variant was conducted across five cohorts, encompassing both Finnish and non-Finnish Europeans. Common variant associations were examined using summary statistics from the largest European GWAS of PD.
Results
No significant association was observed between rare SLC17A5 variants and PD at either MAF threshold. The p.Arg39Cys variant, though enriched in Finnish Europeans, showed no significant association with PD across several cohorts. Similarly, common SLC17A5 variants (MAF ≥1%) were not associated with PD risk.
Conclusion
Our findings do not support a role for SLC17A5 variants in PD susceptibility. While lysosomal dysfunction is central to PD pathogenesis, its contribution appears pathway-specific, with SLC17A5 unlikely to influence risk. Larger, multiethnic studies and functional analyses are needed to further investigate sialic acid metabolism in PD and related disorders.
Keywords: (1–7): Parkinson's disease; SLC17A5; Sialin; Missense; Loss-of-function; Rare variants; Genetic association

Yiqin He, Chenhan Hu, Xiangshu Meng, Rundong Ma, Kexin Duan, Yu Guo, Changqing Liu, Caiyun Ma, Gaofeng Liu, Chunjing Wang,
Overexpression of Lmx1a/NeuroD1 Mediates the Differentiation of Pulmonary Mesenchymal Stem Cells into Dopaminergic Neurons and Repairs Motor Dysfunction in Parkinson’s Disease Rats,
Biocell,
Volume 49, Issue 6,
2025,
Pages 1037-1055,
ISSN 0327-9545,
https://doi.org/10.32604/biocell.2025.064633.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0327954525000581)
Abstract: Background
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown great potential in treating neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson’s disease (PD), due to their ability to differentiate into neurons and secrete neurotrophic factors. Genetic modification of MSCs for PD treatment has become a research focus.
Methods
In this study, rat pulmonary mesenchymal stem cells (PMSCs) were transduced with lentiviral vectors carrying Lmx1a/NeuroD1 to establish genetically engineered PMSCs (LN-PMSCs) and induce their differentiation into dopaminergic neurons. The LN-PMSCs were then transplanted into the right medial forebrain bundle region of PD model rats prepared using the 6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) method. Four weeks post-transplantation, the survival and differentiation of the cells in the brain and motor function of the PD rats were evaluated.
Results
The results showed that after 12 days of induction, the genetically modified LN-PMSCs had differentiated into a large number of dopaminergic neurons. Four weeks post-transplantation, these cells significantly improved motor dysfunction in PD rats and promoted the expression of neuron marker TUJ1, dopaminergic neuron markers FOXA2 and TH, gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic (GABAergic) neuron marker GABA, astrocyte marker GFAP, presynaptic marker SYN, and postsynaptic marker PSD95 in the transplantation area.
Conclusion
Our findings suggest that the gene-engineered PMSCs cell line overexpressing Lmx1a and NeuroD1 (LN-PMSCs) transplantation could be a potential therapeutic strategy for treating PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; dopaminergic neurons; pulmonary mesenchymal stem cells; transcription factors

Fenghua Xu, Wei Zhou, Haiyan Luo, Dongyun Su, Meng Dong, Yang Hu, Manxue Lou, Gongbo Li, Yuqing Zhang,
Efficacy and safety of newer-generation antidepressants medications in Parkinson's disease with depression - A meta-analysis of randomized controllde trials,
Journal of Psychiatric Research,
Volume 184,
2025,
Pages 48-55,
ISSN 0022-3956,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpsychires.2025.02.044.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022395625001232)
Abstract: Background
Depression is common as non-motor symptom in Parkinson's disease (PD). Evidence of antidepressants for PD with depression remain unclear. This meta-analysis examines the efficacy and tolerability of newer-generation antidepressants for PD with depression.
Methods
Six international electronic databases (Cochrane, PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, CINAHL, and PsycINFO) and four Chinese electronic databases (CBM, CNKI, WanFang Data, and VIP) were systematically searched up to October 31, 2023. The primary outcomes were efficacy (change in depressive symptoms) and tolerability (all-cause discontinuations). Secondary outcomes contained improvement in motor symptoms, change score of anxiety rating scales, improvement in cognitive function, and adverse events. This study was registered with PROSPERO, number CRD42020198364.
Result
A total of 11 trials with 713 participants were included. Newer-generation antidepressants significantly improved depressive symptoms (standardized mean differences (SMD) = −1.12 [−1.72; −0.52]), anxiety scores (SMD = −0.60 [−1.04; −0.17]). However, there was insufficient evidence in improving motor function in PD (SMD = −1.19 [−2.74; 0.36]) and the cognitive function (SMD = 0.57 [−0.33; 1.47]). Newer-generation antidepressants were associated with increased diminished sexual desire (RR = 2.34 [1.13; 4.86]) and insomnia (RR = 0.42 [0.22; 0.82]), but similar risk of all-cause discontinuations when compared with the control group (RR = 1.25 [0.85; 1.85]).
Conclusion
Newer-generation antidepressants appear to be beneficial and safe in treating depression in PD.
Keywords: Parkinson disease; Depression; Newer-generation antidepressants; Meta-analysis

Francisco Contreras-Ruston, Suvarnalata Xanthate Duggirala, Judith Wingbermühle, Jordi Navarra, Sonja A. Kotz,
Sensory Feedback in Parkinson Disease Voice Production: A Systematic Review,
Journal of Voice,
2025,
,
ISSN 0892-1997,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvoice.2025.02.039.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0892199725000888)
Abstract: Summary
Background
Understanding voice and speech impairments in Parkinson's disease (PD) is essential for developing effective interventions and ensuring efficient social communication.
Objective
This review reports findings on voice perception and production in PD with a specific focus on sensory feedback (auditory and somatosensory) of the self-voice, neural correlates of the voice, and voice quality parameters such as pitch, loudness, and emotion modulation.
Methods
A combined bibliometric analysis and a systematic review should identify key trends and knowledge gaps in the neuroimaging (functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)/EEG) literature on PD self-voice processing.
Results
EEG studies focusing on pitch revealed significant differences in the P200 event-related potential, but no differences in the N100, between healthy controls and individuals with PD. fMRI studies showed reduced activation in the motor cortex and basal ganglia during speech production in PD, accompanied by increased activation in other brain regions, such as the auditory cortex, which was associated with pitch variability and loudness control. A decrease in right dorsal premotor cortex activation was linked to impaired voice control, particularly regarding loudness modulation. Additionally, the review identified missing research on the emotion modulation of the voice, despite its critical role in social communication. Altered sensory feedback plays a significant role in compensatory cortical responses during vocalization, underscoring the importance of sensory feedback in maintaining normal voice production in PD.
Conclusions
This review identified missing research on voice loudness perception and the potential impact of emotion perception deficits regarding voice modulation in persons with PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease—Voice perception and production—Voice loudness—Voice pitch—Voice emotion—Sensory feedback

Yufeng Cheng, Guoqing Wang, Xinxing Yang, Yuanyuan Wang, Daidi Li, Yujia Zhao, Feng Zhang,
Artesunate alleviates Parkinson's disease by targeting astrocyte MT2A to attenuate dopamine neuronal cuproptosis,
Pharmacological Research,
Volume 219,
2025,
107895,
ISSN 1043-6618,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phrs.2025.107895.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1043661825003202)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common prevalent neurodegenerative disease. Recent studies revealed that dysregulation of copper homeostasis was associated with the progression of PD. However, safe and efficient therapeutic drugs were deficient. Our study first demonstrated that Artesunate (AS) targeted on astrocyte to attenuate 6-OHDA-induced dopamine (DA) neurotoxicity. Furtherly, using HuProt™ 20 K human proteome microarray and SPR analysis, it was demonstrated and validated that metallothionein 2 A (MT2A) was a direct AS-binding protein, which high-expressed in astrocyte and up-regulated by AS. In addition, AS decreased intracellular Cu2+ level and regulated the expression of cuproptosis-associated proteins, such as FDX1, CTR1 and Lip-DLAT. Finally, rescue experiments indicated that AS-mediated DA neuroprotection, Cu2+ reduction and anti-cuproptosis effects were eliminated by MT2A knockdown and MT2A-Lys-31 was a key functional site. Taken together, AS provided neuroprotection against PD via up-regulation of astrocyte MT2A expression, which further decreased intracellular Cu2+ level and improved DA neuronal cuproptosis. These findings provide a valuable resource for AS-binding proteins and present a potential application of AS on PD treatment.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Artesunate; Cuproptosis; Metallothionein 2A; Astrocyte

Dandan Chen, Xin Lu, Jianqi Hao, Pan Xiang, Shihan Tian, Wei Huang, Yupeng Tian, Liulin Xiong, Na Hu, Xiaohe Tian,
Multiphoton phosphorescence lifetime imaging of glutathione dynamics in Parkinson’s mouse brain using cyclometalated iridium complexes,
Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical,
Volume 442,
2025,
138102,
ISSN 0925-4005,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2025.138102.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925400525008780)
Abstract: Glutathione (GSH), a pivotal antioxidant, plays a critical role in Parkinson’s disease (PD) pathogenesis, where oxidative stress drives neuronal damage. However, the dynamic changes of GSH in the brain remain poorly understood. Here, we develop a cyclometalated iridium complex (Ir-DO) for GSH monitoring via multiphoton phosphorescence lifetime imaging. Ir-DO exhibits exceptional optical properties, including long phosphorescence lifetime, deep tissue penetration, and robust multiphoton response. With high biocompatibility, excellent selectivity for GSH, and a low detection limit (300 nM) under physiological pH, Ir-DO enables precise tracking of GSH dynamics in cellular models and brain tissue slices. Using Ir-DO, we reveal a significant reduction of GSH in the substantia nigra of PD mice compared to healthy controls, providing direct evidence for oxidative stress involvement in PD progression. This study not only establishes Ir-DO as a powerful tool for investigating PD mechanisms but also highlights its potential for early diagnostic applications.
Keywords: Cyclometalated iridium complexes; Parkinson's disease; Multiphoton phosphorescence lifetime imaging; Glutathione

Jolanta Dorszewska, Jolanta Florczak-Wyspiańska, Bartosz Słowikowski, Wojciech Owecki, Oliwia Szymanowicz, Ulyana Goutor, Mateusz Dezor, Paweł P. Jagodziński, Wojciech Kozubski,
Genetic variants of ZNF746 and the level of plasma Parkin, PINK1, and ZNF746 proteins in patients with Parkinson's disease,
IBRO Neuroscience Reports,
Volume 18,
2025,
Pages 342-349,
ISSN 2667-2421,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.01.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667242125000168)
Abstract: The occurrence of Parkinson's disease (PD) is influenced by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Genetic variants of PARK2 (PRKN), PARK6 (PINK1), ZNF746, and their protein products are considered parameters related to the occurrence and development of PD. There is an interplay between Parkin, PINK1, and ZNF746 proteins. Inactivation of Parkin or PINK1 proteins results in elevated levels of the neurotoxic ZNF746 protein and loss of dopaminergic neurons. The objective of this study was to investigate the genetic variations in ZNF746 and the levels of Parkin, PINK1, and ZNF746 proteins in both PD patients and controls within the Polish population. The study included 125 controls and 100 PD patients. Genetic variants were analyzed using PCR-HRM and sequencing. The concentration of Parkin, PINK1, and ZNF746 proteins in plasma was determined by ELISA. The presence of three new genetic variants of ZNF746, chr7:149492883 G>A, ch7:149492890 G>A, ch7:149492694 G>A was demonstrated and the occurrence of ZNF746 c.473 G>A and ch7:149492754 A>G (rs191173107) was confirmed in Polish subjects. There was a significant decrease in Parkin concentration (p < 0.05) observed in PD patients when compared to controls. Reduced levels of Parkin were correlated with a significant rise in the concentration of ZNF746 (p < 0.05) in PD patients when compared with controls. PINK1 protein exhibited no notable alterations in concentration, except in patients who carried the heterozygous ZNF746 variant at ch7:149492694 G>A. The study of ZNF746 variants combined with the assessment of levels of Parkin, PINK1, and ZNF746 proteins provides fresh insights into our understanding of PD pathogenesis.
Keywords: ZNF746 gene; Parkin, PINK1, ZNF746 proteins; Parkinson’s disease

HuiMin Liu, Tao Peng, YuDi Xu, QingSheng Li, LingFei Yang, Zhe Gong, JunFang Teng, Qiang Zhang, YanJie Jia,
Association and biological pathways between metabolic syndrome and incident Parkinson’s disease: A prospective cohort study of 289,150 participants,
Psychoneuroendocrinology,
Volume 177,
2025,
107444,
ISSN 0306-4530,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psyneuen.2025.107444.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306453025001672)
Abstract: The relationship between metabolic syndrome (MetS) and Parkinson’s disease (PD) remains uncertain due to inconsistent findings in previous studies. This prospective cohort study investigated the association between MetS and PD risk, along with potential biological mechanisms, using data from 289,150 PD-free participants in the UK Biobank. MetS was defined by the presence of at least three of the following components, while preMetS included one or two: increased waist circumference, elevated triglycerides (TG), high blood pressure (BP), elevated HbA1c, or reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Cox proportional hazards models were utilized to assess the risk of PD, and mediation analyses explored the role of blood biomarkers. Over a median follow-up of 13.1 years, 1682 participants developed PD. PreMetS (HR: 1.24, 95 % CI: 1.02–1.51, P = 0.028) and MetS (HR: 1.32, 95 % CI: 1.08–1.61, P = 0.008) were associated with an increased PD risk, with Kaplan-Meier analysis showing risk escalation with more MetS components. Among individual MetS components, increased waist circumference, elevated HbA1c, and reduced HDL-C were significantly associated with higher PD risk, while elevated TG and BP showed no significant association. Mediation analysis indicated that biomarkers of liver function (alkaline phosphatase) and kidney function (cystatin C) partially mediated the MetS-PD relationship. These findings highlight a significant link between MetS and higher PD risk, with possible mediation through specific blood biomarkers, though temporal ambiguity warrants cautious interpretation.
Keywords: Metabolic Syndrome; Parkinson's Disease; Biomarkers; Mediating mechanisms

Petra Bártová, Eva Augste, Filip Strouhal, Jan Krhut, Martin Slovák, Roman V. Dvorak, Lukáš Peter, Martin Schmidt, David Školoudík,
Home-based peroneal electrical transcutaneous NeuroModulation (peroneal eTNM®) in Parkinson’s disease as “add-on” treatment – Results of a pilot study,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 12,
2025,
100321,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2025.100321.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112525000258)
Abstract: Introduction
Currently, there is no causal cure for Parkinson’s disease (PD), and medications and other therapeutic procedures only allow for the reduction of symptoms. Noninvasive neuromodulation is among the potentially promising treatments for PD patients. The present pilot study aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of peroneal electrical Transcutaneous NeuroModulation (peroneal eTNM®) in the treatment of PD symptoms with a particular emphasis on disease-related quality of life.
Methods
Twelve patients with clinically established Parkinsońs disease (8 males; mean age 59.5 ± 11.6 years) were enrolled. In addition to state-of-the-art background pharmacotherapy for PD, patients were treated with peroneal eTNM® daily for 30 min for 6 weeks followed by 6 weeks of follow-up without stimulation. The primary endpoint was safety and tolerability, the secondary endpoint was the response of the condition on the ’add-on’ peroneal eTNM®.
Results
Peroneal eTNM® proved to be feasible for home treatment in the PD population. Treatment-related adverse events were not reported throughout the study. Along with an excellent safety profile, peroneal eTNM® showed considerable positive trends in terms of improvement in quality of life as measured by EQ-5D-5L questionnaire. There was a definitive trend toward a reduction in Section III of the Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale showing positive changes in tremor-related items. At the end of the study, 50 % of the patients were considered clinical responders.
Conclusions
Larger and more rigorously designed studies are needed to validate the utility and position of peroneal eTNM® in the treatment of patients with PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Tremor; Neuromodulation; Peroneal nerve; Quality of life; URIS I™ neuromodulation system

Sergei Anisimov, Masahiko Takahashi, Taichi Kakihana, Yoshinori Katsuragi, Junya Sango, Takayuki Abe, Masahiro Fujii,
USP10 inhibits the degradation of α-synuclein, a pathogenic factor associated with Parkinson's disease, by inhibiting chaperone-mediated autophagy,
Journal of Biological Chemistry,
Volume 301, Issue 7,
2025,
110292,
ISSN 0021-9258,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbc.2025.110292.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021925825021428)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of dopaminergic neurons, particularly in the substantia nigra of the brain. α-Synuclein is a major causative factor in both familial and sporadic forms of PD, and its protein aggregates play critical roles in neuronal cell death and PD pathogenesis. This study explored the role of ubiquitin-specific protease 10 (USP10) in the regulation of α-synuclein in neuronal cells. Knockdown of USP10 in SH-SY5Y neuronal cells led to a reduction in α-synuclein levels, which was reversed by inhibiting chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) through lysosome-associated membrane protein 2A depletion, a protein essential for CMA. A novel CMA reporter with a specific CMA degradation motif further demonstrated that knockdown of USP10 activated CMA in neuronal cells. In addition, USP10 overexpression increased the levels of both WT and five PD-associated α-synuclein mutants, whereas a deubiquitinase-deficient USP10 mutant did not increase α-synuclein levels. This study provides new insights into the mechanisms that regulate α-synuclein proteostasis and highlights USP10 as a promising drug target for PD.
Keywords: USP10; α-synuclein; Parkinson’s disease; сhaperone-mediated autophagy

Min Yin, Yangbo Zhang, Zhijuan Cheng, Zhiping Wu, Qinghua Luo, Weiping Chen,
Low-grade chronic inflammatory stimulation alleviates α‑syn accumulation in Parkinson's disease by activating autophagy to promote neuronal survival in the Thy1-h[A30P]α-syn mouse model,
Behavioural Brain Research,
Volume 494,
2025,
115703,
ISSN 0166-4328,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115703.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432825002906)
Abstract: The impact of inflammation on Parkinson's disease (PD) development and progression varies based on factors such as the intensity, duration of inflammation, and the disease stage. Delving deeper into this aspect could unveil novel therapeutic opportunities for PD treatment. (Thy-1)-h[A30P]α-syn mice were used as PD animal models. Low-grade chronic inflammatory stimulation was applied by the treatment of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or monophosphoryl lipid (MPL). RT-qPCR, western blotting, IHC, and IF staining were utilized to confirm the relative expression of targeted genes and proteins. Assay kits were used to determine the levels of Cathepsin B (CTSB) activities. The motor function of the mice was assessed by pole-climbing test and field test. Mild inflammatory stimulus activated microglia without elevating their secretion of inflammatory cytokines. This stimulation also induced activation of autophagy, and facilitated the degradation of α-syn in the midbrain by triggering the autophagy-lysosome pathway, thereby fostering neuron survival. Low-grade inflammatory stimulation promoted α-syn degradation via the autophagy-lysosome pathway. These findings offer new perspectives for the treatment of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; α‑syn accumulation; Thy1-h[A30P]α-syn mice; The autophagy-lysosome pathway; Low-grade chronic inflammatory stimulations
