Pratima Tambe, Vaishali Undale, Avinash Sanap, Ramesh Bhonde, Nishant Mante,
The prospective role of mesenchymal stem cells in Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 127,
2024,
107087,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107087.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S135380202401099X)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a stressful neurodegenerative disorder affecting millions worldwide. PD leads to debilitating motor and cognitive symptoms such as tremors, rigidity, and difficulty walking. Current therapies for PD are symptomatic and don't address the root cause. Therefore, there is an urgent need for better management and intensive research into alternative therapies. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) therapy is among the leading contenders among these promising avenues. We examined preclinical and clinical evidence demonstrating the neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory, and regenerative properties of the MSCs. This review focuses on the complex pathophysiological mechanisms of PD, as well as the perspectives of MSCs and their derivatives, such as secretomes and exosomes, in the clinical management of PD. We also analyzed the challenges and limitations of each approach, including delivery methods, timing of administration, and long-term safety considerations.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Mesenchymal stem cells; Secretome; Exosomes; Route of administration; Blood-brain barrier

Kanchan Bala, Khadga Raj Aran,
Exploring the common genes involved in autism spectrum disorder and Parkinson's disease: A systematic review,
Aging and Health Research,
Volume 4, Issue 4,
2024,
100206,
ISSN 2667-0321,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ahr.2024.100206.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667032124000271)
Abstract: Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are distinct neurodevelopmental disorders associated with distinct brain areas. ASD is characterized by delayed social communication skills and restricted repetitive behaviours. Conversely, PD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder affecting basal ganglia, causing resting tremor, rigidity, postural instability, and bradykinesia. Both diseases share similarities in affected brain areas, including motor control and social behaviour. In both diseases, PARK2, SHANK3, SLC, RIT2, DRD2, and CD157/BST1 genes are involved by regulating synaptic function and dopamine neurons. Mutations in PARK2, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, can lead to dysfunctional mitophagy, causing the accumulation of damaged mitochondria and contributing to neuronal cell death, a hallmark of PD. PARK2 pathway disruptions have also been observed in some individuals with ASD, which are involved in tagging damaged or unwanted proteins for degradation, leading to the accumulation of misfolded or dysfunctional proteins that may contribute to neurodevelopmental abnormalities. PINK1 is crucial for maintaining mitochondrial quality and eliminating dysfunctional ones that produce reactive oxygen species (ROS). Mutations in this gene lead to damaged mitochondria and increased ROS production, contributing to neurodegeneration in dopamine-producing neurons. This review highlighted the various genes involved in pathogeneses of ASD and PD with their future implications.
Keywords: Autism spectrum disorder; Parkinson's disease; PARK2, SHANK3; SLC

Adam M. Hamilton, Ian N. Krout, Alexandria C. White, Timothy R. Sampson,
Microbiome-based therapeutics for Parkinson's disease,
Neurotherapeutics,
Volume 21, Issue 6,
2024,
e00462,
ISSN 1878-7479,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00462.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1878747924001491)
Abstract: Recent experimental and clinical data demonstrate a significant dysregulation of the gut microbiome in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD). With an immense influence on all aspects of physiology, this dysregulation has potential to directly or indirectly contribute to disease pathology. Experimental models have bridged these associations toward defined contributions, identifying various microbiome-dependent impacts to PD pathology. These studies have laid the foundation for human translation, examining whether certain members of the microbiome and/or whole restoration of the gut microbiome community can provide therapeutic benefit for people living with PD. Here, we review recent and ongoing clinically-focused studies that use microbiome-targeted therapies to limit the severity and progression of PD. Fecal microbiome transplants, prebiotic interventions, and probiotic supplementation are each emerging as viable methodologies to augment the gut microbiome and potentially limit PD symptoms. While still early, the data in the field to date support continued cross-talk between experimental systems and human studies to identify key microbial factors that contribute to PD pathologies.
Keywords: Microbiome; Parkinson's disease; Therapeutics; Gut-brain axis

Claudio Del Percio, Roberta Lizio, Susanna Lopez, Giuseppe Noce, Dharmendra Jakhar, Matteo Carpi, Burcu Bölükbaş, Andrea Soricelli, Marco Salvatore, Bahar Güntekin, Görsev Yener, Federico Massa, Dario Arnaldi, Francesco Famà, Matteo Pardini, Raffaele Ferri, Michele Salerni, Bartolo Lanuzza, Fabrizio Stocchi, Laura Vacca, Chiara Coletti, Moira Marizzoni, John Paul Taylor, Lutfu Hanoğlu, Nesrin Helvacı Yılmaz, İlayda Kıyı, Yağmur Özbek-İşbitiren, Giovanni B. Frisoni, Sofia Cuoco, Paolo Barone, Anita D'Anselmo, Laura Bonanni, Roberta Biundo, Fabrizia D'Antonio, Giuseppe Bruno, Franco Giubilei, Francesca De Pandis, Rossella Rotondo, Angelo Antonini, Claudio Babiloni,
Resting-state electroencephalographic rhythms depend on sex in patients with dementia due to Parkinson's and Lewy Body diseases: An exploratory study,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 206,
2025,
106807,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106807.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996125000233)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are more prevalent in males than females. Furthermore, they typically showed abnormally high delta (< 4 Hz) and low alpha (8–10 Hz) rhythms from resting-state electroencephalographic (rsEEG) activity. Here, we hypothesized that those abnormalities may depend on the patient's sex. An international database provided clinical-demographic-rsEEG datasets for cognitively unimpaired older (Healthy; N = 49; 24 females), PDD (N = 39; 13 females), and DLB (N = 38; 15 females) participants. Each group was stratified into matched female and male subgroups. The rsEEG rhythms were investigated across the individual rsEEG delta, theta, and alpha frequency bands based on the individual alpha frequency peak. The eLORETA freeware was used to estimate cortical rsEEG sources. In the Healthy group, widespread rsEEG alpha source activities were greater in the females than in the males. In the PDD group, widespread rsEEG delta source activities were lower and widespread rsEEG alpha source activities were greater in the females than in the males. In the DLB group, central-parietal rsEEG delta source activities were lower, and posterior rsEEG alpha source activities were greater in the females than in the males. These results suggest sex-dependent hormonal modulation of neuroprotective-compensatory neurophysiological mechanisms in PDD and DLB patients underlying the generation of rsEEG delta and alpha rhythms, which should be considered in the treatment of vigilance dysregulation in those patients.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD); Lewy body dementia (DLB); Resting-state electroencephalographic (EEG) rhythms; Exact low-resolution brain electromagnetic source tomography (eLORETA); Sex

Michael Siu-Lun Lai, Maja Højvang Sørensen, Krit Lee, John Man-Tak Chu, Raymond Chuen-Chung Chang,
3D mapping of direct VTA-CA2 circuit with potential involvement in Parkinson's disease degeneration,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 202,
2024,
106723,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2024.106723.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996124003255)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) is commonly developed in patients at the late stage of Parkinson's disease (PD) with unknown progression mechanisms. From the post-mortem tissues and animal models, the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the CA2 regions are closely associated with dementia development in PDD. However, the structural connection between the two regions has not been fully traced. In this study, we applied tissue clearing and adeno-associated virus (AAV) tracing to map the neural circuits in a 3D manner. Hence, we have confirmed the direct connection between the regions with two dual AAV tracing systems and traced the VTA-CA2 circuit in 3D reconstruction. With the immunostaining, we have shown that the GABAergic neurons are the potential subtype of the postsynaptic CA2 neurons in the VTA-CA2 circuit. Under the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), we have demonstrated the degeneration of the VTA-CA2 circuit from the observation of fragmented axonal projections. Collectively, we have first traced the direct connection of the whole VTA-CA2 circuit in an intact 3D manner and monitored the fragmentation of this target circuit in the 6-OHDA model. This VTA-CA2 circuit can be a target for future studies of the pathological spreading and degeneration mechanism from PD to PDD.
Keywords: Adeno-associated virus; Tissue clearing; Ventral tegmental area; CA2; Parkinson's disease dementia

Naila Hassan Alkefai,
Optimization and evaluation of thymoquinone-loaded transniosome in situ gel for intranasal treatment of Parkinson's disease,
Journal of Drug Delivery Science and Technology,
Volume 104,
2025,
106565,
ISSN 1773-2247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jddst.2024.106565.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1773224724012346)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that requires effective and targeted therapeutic strategies. Thymoquinone (TQ), a bioactive compound with neuroprotective properties, has shown potential in PD management. However, its therapeutic efficacy is limited by poor bioavailability and systemic delivery challenges. This study aims to optimize and evaluate Thymoquinone-loaded transniosome (TQ-TNs) in situ gel for intranasal delivery as a novel approach to enhance its therapeutic effects in PD management. The formulation variables, such as Leciva-S70, span 60, and cholesterol, were optimized using a Box-Behnken design. The optimized formulation was then incorporated into an in situ gel matrix to facilitate sustained release and improved mucosal adhesion. The developed formulation was evaluated in vitro, including drug release studies, mucoadhesion testing, and cytotoxicity assays on neuronal cell lines. The optimized TNs formulation had a vesicle size of 102.2 nm, PDI of 0.231, and zeta potential of −28.31 mV. In vitro drug release studies showed 84.67 % release from TQ-TNs over 24 h, compared to 73.06 % from TQ-suspension in 6 h, indicating a controlled release pattern. Ex vivo permeation studies revealed significantly higher TQ permeability for TQ-TNs (245.24 μg/cm2) than TQ-suspension (118.21 μg/cm2). Antioxidant activity was considerably higher for TQ-TNs (87.09 %) than pure TQ (68.89 %), comparable to ascorbic acid (91.94 %). Stability studies over six months showed non-significant change. In vitro cytotoxicity and neuroprotection assays using SH-SY5Y cells to evaluate its efficacy and potential as a therapeutic option for PD.
Keywords: Intranasal; Transniosomes; Edge activator; Parkinson's disorder; Enhanced delivery

Bolin Lian, Jing Zhang, Xiang Yin, Jiayan Wang, Li Li, Qianqian Ju, Yuejun Wang, Yuhui Jiang, Xiaoyu Liu, Yu Chen, Xin Tang, Cheng Sun,
SIRT1 improves lactate homeostasis in the brain to alleviate parkinsonism via deacetylation and inhibition of PKM2,
Cell Reports Medicine,
Volume 5, Issue 8,
2024,
101684,
ISSN 2666-3791,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.xcrm.2024.101684.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666379124004051)
Abstract: Summary
Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) is a histone deacetylase and plays diverse functions in various physiological events, from development to lifespan regulation. Here, in Parkinson’s disease (PD) model mice, we demonstrated that SIRT1 ameliorates parkinsonism, while SIRT1 knockdown further aggravates PD phenotypes. Mechanistically, SIRT1 interacts with and deacetylates pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) at K135 and K206, thus leading to reduced PKM2 enzyme activity and lactate production, which eventually results in decreased glial activation in the brain. Administration of lactate in the brain recapitulates PD-like phenotypes. Furthermore, increased expression of PKM2 worsens PD symptoms, and, on the contrary, inhibition of PKM2 by shikonin or PKM2-IN-1 alleviates parkinsonism in mice. Collectively, our data indicate that excessive lactate in the brain might be involved in the progression of PD. By improving lactate homeostasis, SIRT1, together with PKM2, are likely drug targets for developing agents for the treatment of neurodegeneration in PD.

Xiaoqian Sun, Qingqing Jiang, Yu Zhang, Jiali Su, Wenqu Liu, Juanjuan Lv, Fengtang Yang, Wei Shu,
Advances in fluorescent probe development for bioimaging of potential Parkinson's biomarkers,
European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry,
Volume 267,
2024,
116195,
ISSN 0223-5234,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116195.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0223523424000758)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease. The clinical symptoms of PD are usually related to motor symptoms, including postural instability, rigidity, bradykinesia, and resting tremors. At present, the pathology of PD is not yet clear. Therefore, revealing the underlying pathological mechanism of PD is of great significance. A variety of bioactive molecules are produced during the onset of Parkinson's, and these bioactive molecules may be a key factor in the development of Parkinson's. The emerging fluorescence imaging technology has good sensitivity and high signal-to-noise ratio, making it possible to deeply understand the pathogenesis of PD through these bioactive molecules. Currently, fluorescent probes targeting PD biomarkers are widely developed and applied. This article categorizes and summarizes fluorescent probes based on different PD biomarkers, systematically introduces their applications in the pathological process of PD, and finally briefly elaborates on the challenges and prospects of these probes. We hope that this review will provide in-depth reference insights for designing fluorescent probes, and contribute to study of the pathogenesis and clinical treatment of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Fluorescent probe; Bioimaging; Biomarkers

Manabu Rohr-Fukuma, Lennart H. Stieglitz, Bartosz Bujan, Piotr Jedrysiak, Markus F. Oertel, Lena Salzmann, Christian R. Baumann, Lukas L. Imbach, Roger Gassert, Oliver Bichsel,
Neurofeedback-enabled beta power control with a fully implanted DBS system in patients with Parkinson’s disease,
Clinical Neurophysiology,
Volume 165,
2024,
Pages 1-15,
ISSN 1388-2457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinph.2024.06.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1388245724001743)
Abstract: Objective
Parkinsonian motor symptoms are linked to pathologically increased beta oscillations in the basal ganglia. Studies with externalised deep brain stimulation electrodes showed that Parkinson patients were able to rapidly gain control over these pathological basal ganglia signals through neurofeedback. Studies with fully implanted deep brain stimulation systems duplicating these promising results are required to grant transferability to daily application.
Methods
In this study, seven patients with idiopathic Parkinson’s disease and one with familial Parkinson’s disease were included. In a postoperative setting, beta oscillations from the subthalamic nucleus were recorded with a fully implanted deep brain stimulation system and converted to a real-time visual feedback signal. Participants were instructed to perform bidirectional neurofeedback tasks with the aim to modulate these oscillations.
Results
While receiving regular medication and deep brain stimulation, participants were able to significantly improve their neurofeedback ability and achieved a significant decrease of subthalamic beta power (median reduction of 31% in the final neurofeedback block).
Conclusion
We could demonstrate that a fully implanted deep brain stimulation system can provide visual neurofeedback enabling patients with Parkinson’s disease to rapidly control pathological subthalamic beta oscillations.
Significance
Fully-implanted DBS electrode-guided neurofeedback is feasible and can now be explored over extended timespans.
Keywords: Deep brain stimulation; Neurofeedback; Beta-oscillations

Fernando D. Farfán, Ana L. Albarracín, Gabriel A. Ruíz, Eduardo Fernández-Jover,
A new methodological approach based on stationarity and permutation entropy of EMG Bursts for assessing muscle function alterations in a Parkinson’s disease animal model,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 104,
2025,
107638,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2025.107638.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809425001491)
Abstract: The EMG signal is the electrical manifestation of motor unit recruitment processes underlying the contractile dynamics of muscle fibers. The analysis methodology frequently carried out includes a preprocessing stage based on artifact removal, stationarity testing, a feature extraction and interpretation stage. Generally, stationarity criteria are difficult to meet when EMG signals are evoked by momentary activations (bursting activity). Thus, the study of contractile patterns evoked in free-moving protocols require particular treatments. Here, we propose a new approach for quantitatively measuring stationarity by using mean, variance and autocovariance test (MVA-test) and the Permutation Entropy for measuring uncertainty degree. This methodology was applied to EMG signals obtained from a Parkinson’s disease (PD) lesion model to longitudinally study the muscle function alterations. The MVA-test revealed that the temporal structure of EMG around the reference contractile zone presents incremental non-stationary characteristics over post-injury time. Likewise, it was observed that the initial phase of motor recruitment in the biceps femoris (BF) muscle (around the onset) presents a high non-stationary component, which increases over post-injury time. Permutation entropy measures throughout the contractile dynamics of the BF muscle revealed that the uncertainty degree decreases in the initial phase of contraction as the animal’s post-injury time increases. The analysis proposed allowed for a longitudinal characterization of muscle function alterations in an animal model of PD in terms of the stationarity properties of EMG signals. Furthermore, it was observed that permutation entropy could serve as a robust biomarker for quantifying neuromuscular remodeling caused by PD progression.
Keywords: Electromyography; Stationarity analysis; Permutation entropy

MacKenzie L. Bolen, Beatriz Nuñes Gomes, Blake Gill, Kelly B. Menees, Hannah Staley, Janna Jernigan, Nikolaus R. McFarland, Ellen M. Zimmermann, Christopher E. Forsmark, Malú Gámez Tansey,
Peripheral blood immune cells from individuals with Parkinson's disease or inflammatory bowel disease share deficits in iron storage and transport that are modulated by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 207,
2025,
106794,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106794.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996125000105)
Abstract: Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a multisystem disorder in which dysregulated neuroimmune crosstalk and inflammatory relay via the gut-blood-brain axis have been implicated in PD pathogenesis. Although alterations in circulating inflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been associated with PD, no biomarkers have been identified that predict clinical progression or disease outcome. Gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction, which involves perturbation of the underlying immune system, is an early and often-overlooked symptom that affects up to 80 % of individuals living with PD. Interestingly, 50–70 % of individuals with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), a GI condition that has been epidemiologically linked to PD, display chronic illness-induced anemia — which drives toxic accumulation of iron in the gut. Ferroptotic (or iron loaded) cells have small and dysmorphic mitochondria—suggesting that mitochondrial dysfunction is a consequence of iron accumulation. In pro-inflammatory environments, iron accumulates in immune cells, suggesting a possible connection and/or synergy between iron dysregulation and immune cell dysfunction. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) recapitulate certain PD-associated neuropathological and inflammatory signatures and can act as communicating messengers in the gut-brain axis. Additionally, this communication can be modulated by several environmental factors; specifically, our data further support existing literature demonstrating a role for non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in modulating immune transcriptional states in inflamed individuals. A mechanism linking chronic gut inflammation to iron dysregulation and mitochondrial function within peripheral immune cells has yet to be identified in conferring risk for PD. To that end, we isolated PBMCs and simultaneously evaluated their directed transcriptome and bioenergetic status, to investigate if iron dysregulation and mitochondrial sensitization are linked in individuals living with PD or IBD because of chronic underlying remittent immune activation. We have identified shared features of peripheral inflammation and immunometabolism in individuals living with IBD or PD that may contribute to the epidemiological association reported between IBD and risk for PD.
Keywords: Neuroscience; Immunology; Parkinson's disease; Biomarkers

Geralyn Schulz, Angela Halpern, Jennifer Speilman, Lorraine Ramig, Ira Panzer, Alan Sharpley, Katherine Freeman,
Consonant intelligibility in individuals with Parkinson's disease in noise: Pre-specified secondary outcome variables from a randomized control trial (RCT) comparing two intensive speech treatments (LSVT LOUD vs. LSVT ARTIC),
Journal of Neurolinguistics,
Volume 75,
2025,
101251,
ISSN 0911-6044,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jneuroling.2025.101251.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0911604425000077)
Abstract: The majority of people with Parkinson's disease (PD) experience changes in speech production, most notably reduced vocal volume and imprecise articulation, that limit speech intelligibility and may contribute to significant declines in quality of life. We previously conducted a randomized control trial comparing two intensive treatments, voice (LSVT LOUD) or articulation (LSVT ARTIC) to assess single word intelligibility in the presence of background noise (babble and mall). Participants (64 PD and 20 Healthy) read words from the diagnostic rhyme test (DRT), an ANSI Standard for measuring intelligibility of speech, before and after one month (treatment or no treatment). Teams of trained listeners blindly rated the data. Previously we found that single word intelligibility in the presence of both noise conditions improved in PD participants who had LSVT LOUD compared to the groups that had LSVT ARTIC or no treatment. The current study analyzed the distinctive features (Compactness, Graveness, Sustention, Sibilation, Nasality, Voicing), of the initial consonants of words in the DRT test to determine what in particular is contributing to the differences in word intelligibility that we previously identified. The distinctive features of the DRT assess the valving nature of consonant production. Intensive treatment targeting vocal loudness (LSVT LOUD) had a greater positive effect on consonant intelligibility than treatment targeting articulation (LSVT ARTIC) for all distinctive features in background Babble noise and for 5/6 distinctive features in background Mall noise. Due to the definition of the distinctive features, we can conclude that the intelligibility gains seen following LSVT LOUD treatment are due to improved vocal tract valving.
Keywords: Dysarthria; Motor speech disorders; Treatment; LSVT LOUD; Parkinson's disease

Wenjie Qin, Ruiqi Su, Xiaodie Chen, Zhiyan Liang, Linyan Huang, Xuhong Qian, Youjun Yang, Suhua Qi, Xiao Luo,
Synergistic Anti-Ferroptosis with a Minimalistic, Peroxide-Triggered Carbon Monoxide Donor for Parkinson’s Disease,
Journal of Medicinal Chemistry,
Volume 68, Issue 3,
2025,
Pages 3547-3558,
ISSN 1520-4804,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c02691.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1520480425001577)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disease, with current treatments primarily focusing on improving dopaminergic activity, providing symptomatic relief but failing to halt disease progression. Ferroptosis drives PD pathogenesis and is a potential therapeutic target. Herein, we introduce a novel peroxide-activated carbon monoxide (CO) donor, PCOD, featuring a streamlined structure designed to potentially enhance blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration and optimize therapeutic outcomes. PCOD releases CO upon activation by nucleophilic peroxides, e.g., ONOO– and H2O2. This mechanism provides a potent strategy against ferroptosis: first, scavenging peroxides that generate oxidative radicals involved in ferroptosis, and second, CO is proposed to inhibit Fenton chemistry through coordination to Fe2+. In MPTP-treated mice, PCOD prevents dopaminergic neuron loss in the substantia nigra and alleviates PD symptoms. This peroxide-triggered CO release offers a promising and innovative strategy to combat ferroptosis and neurodegeneration in PD.


Sirinya Ukasi, Satana Pongampai, Basanta Kumar Panigrahi, Swati Panda, Sugato Hajra, Hoe Joon Kim, Naratip Vittayakorn, Thitirat Charoonsuk,
Continuous tremor monitoring in Parkinson’s disease: A wristwatch-inspired triboelectric sensor approach,
iScience,
Volume 27, Issue 12,
2024,
111480,
ISSN 2589-0042,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isci.2024.111480.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S258900422402707X)
Abstract: Summary
Parkinson’s disease (PD) prevalence is projected to reach 12 million by 2040. Wearable sensors offer a promising approach for comfortable, continuous tremor monitoring to optimize treatment strategies. Here, we present a wristwatch-like triboelectric sensor (WW-TES) inspired by automatic watches for unobtrusive PD tremor assessment. The WW-TES utilizes a free-standing design with a surface-modified polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) film and a stainless-steel rotor within a biocompatible polylactic acid (PLA) package. Electrode distance is optimized to maximize the output signal. We propose and discuss the WW-TES working mechanism. The final design is validated for activities of daily living (ADLs), with varying signal amplitudes corresponding to tremor severity levels ("normal" to "severe") based on MDS-UPDRS tremor frequency. Wavelet packet transform (WPT) is employed for signal analysis during ADLs. The WW-TES demonstrates the potential for continuous tremor monitoring, offering an accurate screening of severity and comfortable, unobtrusive wearability.
Keywords: Health sciences; Natural sciences; Materials science

Govind Singh. Mann, Binay K. Panjiyar,
ID# 1907220 Comparing the impact of Low frequency vs High frequency Deep Brain Stimulation in Parkinson’s disease,
Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface,
Volume 28, Issue 7, Supplement,
2025,
Page S210,
ISSN 1094-7159,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurom.2025.08.399.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1094715925006750)

Eleonora Fiorenzato, Silvia Zabberoni, Maria Stefania De Simone, Alberto Costa, Gaetano Tieri, Sara Taglieri, Antonella Peppe, Giovanni Augusto Carlesimo, Carlo Caltagirone, Angelo Antonini, Giorgia Cona,
Effects of virtual reality cognitive training on executive function and prospective memory in Parkinson's disease and healthy aging,
Journal of the Neurological Sciences,
Volume 473,
2025,
123507,
ISSN 0022-510X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2025.123507.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022510X25001248)
Abstract: Background
Neurocognitive disturbances in Parkinson's disease (PD) are common and can impact several aspects of daily functioning and quality of life. This multicenter study evaluated the efficacy of a novel immersive virtual reality (iVR) cognitive training (CT) targeting executive functions (EF)—planning, shifting, and updating abilities—to improve prospective memory (PM) in PD patients with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI). Potential transfer effects were also examined in healthy older adults (HC).
Methods
In this double-blind randomized controlled trial, 30 PD-MCI were randomized into a 4-week EF-training (PD-CT) or active placebo (PD-AP), delivered at home through a combined approach of telemedicine and iVR. Similarly, 30 age- and education-matched HC were assigned to the EF-training (HC-CT) or active placebo (HC-AP).
Results
The PD-CT group exhibited significant improvements in PM (in time-based and verbal-response tasks) and in EF, particularly in inhibition abilities (in the Stroop test), with effects sustained at 2-month follow-up. These gains were absent in the PD-AP group. Regression analyses revealed that PM enhancements were primarily driven by improved inhibition and shifting abilities. The EF-training was effective also in the older adults, the HC-CT group showed improvements in planning abilities (in the Zoo Map test) at post-intervention and 2-month follow-up, while no cognitive gains were observed in the HC-AP group.
Conclusions
This innovative iVR-based EF-training effectively enhances PM and inhibition in PD-MCI, and planning abilities in healthy older adults, demonstrating its potential for improving cognition in both populations. These findings support the use of iVR and telemedicine for accessible, personalized non-pharmacological cognitive interventions.
Keywords: Telehealth; Cognitive rehabilitation; Executive dysfunction; Healthy aging; Virtual healthcare; Prospection

Huijing Cong, Jing Hu, Jing Wang, Baiyu Chang, Rongtao Li, Xinran Cui, Chenghao Zhang, Hongyu Ji, Congcong Lin, Jingling Tang, Jiaxin Liu,
Bromocriptine mesylate-loaded nanoparticles co-modified with low molecular weight protamine and lactoferrin for enhanced nose-to-brain delivery in Parkinson’s disease treatment,
International Journal of Pharmaceutics,
Volume 669,
2025,
125054,
ISSN 0378-5173,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpharm.2024.125054.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378517324012882)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease confronts challenges in drug delivery due to the blood-brain barrier. Intranasal delivery bypasses the blood-brain barrier for improved drug bioavailability, yet narrow nasal space and brief retention time hinder clinical applicability. We conducted a Bromocriptine Mesylate-loaded PLGA nanoparticles co-modified with low molecular weight protamine (LMWP) and lactoferrin (Lf) (LMWP/Lf-BCM-NPs) for nose-to-brain delivery. The resulting LMWP/Lf-BCM-NPs were uniform spheres with an average size of 248.53 ± 16.25 nm and zeta potential of −2.63 ± 0.74 mV. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy confirmed LMWP and Lf attachment. The co-modified nanoparticles showed improving cellular transport and good viability. The LMWP/Lf-BCM-NPs showed increased brain targeting efficiency in mice. In haloperidol-induced Parkinson mouse models, the LMWP/Lf-BCM-NPs showed increased brain targeting efficiency, enhanced behavioral regulatory effects, enhanced antioxidant effects and neuroprotection effects. This study paves the way for a novel, non-invasive brain-targeted therapy, offering a promising avenue for Parkinson’s disease clinical treatment.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Nose-to-brain delivery; Low molecular weight protamine; Lactoferrin; Co-modified nanoparticles

Bing Hu, Xingmei Wang, Sixia Lu, Xijian Ying,
A study of bidirectional control of Parkinson’s beta oscillations by basal ganglia,
Chaos, Solitons & Fractals,
Volume 195,
2025,
116267,
ISSN 0960-0779,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chaos.2025.116267.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960077925002802)
Abstract: In this study, we investigate the origin and control mechanism of excessive beta oscillations in the electroencephalogram, a marker of Parkinson’s disease (PD). We construct four thalamus-cortex-basal ganglia circuit (TCBGC) computational models to address this. Our analysis reveals that variations in coupling weights within the thalamic circuit can induce beta oscillations through supercritical and subcritical Hopf bifurcations. Beta oscillation frequency and amplitude display contrasting trends across different parameter regions. Modulating the activation level of globus pallidus internal (GPi) can inhibit beta oscillations via projections to specific relay nuclei (SRN) or thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN), suggesting a bidirectional regulatory mechanism. Similarly, globus pallidus externa (GPe) exerts a bidirectional inhibitory effect on beta oscillations. Pathological parameters influence this regulation by shifting Hopf bifurcation points. The cortex exhibits a low critical average discharge rate, whereas GPi and GPe show varying triggering average discharge rates. Both external constant voltage and deep brain stimulation (DBS) effectively suppress beta oscillations by modulating GPi and GPe. Our findings highlight GPi and GPe as potential DBS targets for PD treatment, providing insights into beta oscillation regulation. This work extends previous efforts by exploring beta oscillation dynamics within the TCBGC.
Keywords: Beta oscillations; Pallidum; Thalamocortical circuit; Bidirectional inhibition; Frequency and amplitude

In Sun Choi, Jinmo Kim, Joon Ho Choi, Eun-Mee Kim, Ji-Woong Choi, Jong-Cheol Rah,
Modulation of premotor cortex excitability mitigates the behavioral and electrophysiological abnormalities in a Parkinson's disease mouse model,
Progress in Neurobiology,
Volume 249,
2025,
102761,
ISSN 0301-0082,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pneurobio.2025.102761.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301008225000528)
Abstract: The subthalamic nucleus (STN) plays a crucial role in suppressing prepotent response tendency. The prefrontal regions innervating the STN exhibit increased activity during the stop-signal responses, and the optogenetic activation of these neurons suppresses ongoing behavior. High-frequency electrical stimulation of the STN effectively treats the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), yet its underlying circuit mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we investigated the involvement of STN-projecting premotor (M2) neurons in PD mouse models and the impact of deep brain stimulation targeting the STN (DBS-STN). We found that the M2 neurons exhibited enhanced burst firing and synchronous oscillations in the PD mouse model. Remarkably, high-frequency stimulation of STN-projecting M2 neurons, simulating antidromic activation during DBS-STN relieved motor symptoms and hyperexcitability. These changes were attributed to reduced firing frequency vs. current relationship through normalized hyperpolarization-activated inward current (Ih). The M2 neurons in the PD model mouse displayed increased Ih, which was reversed by high-frequency stimulation. Additionally, the infusion of ZD7288, an HCN channel blocker, into the M2 replicated the effects of high-frequency stimulation. In conclusion, our study reveals excessive excitability and suppressive motor control through M2-STN synapses in a PD mouse model. Antidromic excitation of M2 neurons during DBS-STN alleviates this suppression, thereby improving motor impairment. These findings provide insights into the circuit-level dynamics underlying deep brain stimulation's therapeutic effects in PD, suggesting that M2-STN synapses could serve as potential targets for future therapeutic strategies.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Subthalamic nucleus; Premotor cortex; Deep brain stimulation; HCN channel

Yu Lei, Jiabin Zhou, Dongyuan Xu, Songshan Chai, Nanxiang Xiong,
Corilagin Attenuates Neuronal Apoptosis and Ferroptosis of Parkinson’s Disease through Regulating the TLR4/Src/NOX2 Signaling Pathway,
ACS Chemical Neuroscience,
Volume 16, Issue 5,
2025,
Pages 968-980,
ISSN 1948-7193,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00035.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1948719325000568)
Abstract: Corilagin has shown neuroprotective potential in various neurological disorders, but its effects in Parkinson’s disease (PD) have not been fully explored. In this study, we investigated the therapeutic impact and underlying mechanism of corilagin on PD using MPTP-induced mice and MPP+-treated N2a cells. Behavioral tests and immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that corilagin significantly reduced MPTP-induced loss of TH-positive neurons in the substantia nigra. In vitro, corilagin improved cell viability, decreased MPP+-induced apoptosis, and mitigated the associated oxidative stress by lowering intracellular ROS levels and preserving mitochondrial membrane potential. Moreover, corilagin reversed MPP+-induced iron accumulation and lipid peroxidation in N2a cells. Mechanistically, Western blotting revealed that the protective effects of corilagin are linked to the TLR4/Src/NOX2 signaling pathway. The TLR4 agonist RS 09 impaired the neuroprotective effects of corilagin, further supporting its role in modulating ferroptosis via this pathway. These findings suggest that corilagin could be a promising therapeutic agent for PD by targeting the TLR4/Src/NOX2 signaling axis to inhibit ferroptosis.

Keywords: corilagin; oxidative stress; apoptosis; ferroptosis; Parkinson’s disease; TLR4/Src/NOX2

Koichi Nagaki, Wataru Matsushita, Makio Takahashi,
Evaluation of a blended learning program designed to improve clinical practice skills in novice healthcare professionals caring for patients with Parkinson’s disease,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 13,
2025,
100367,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2025.100367.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112525000714)
Abstract: Introduction
Specialized healthcare facilities for Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients require professionals with comprehensive knowledge of disease management and palliative care. This intervention study evaluated a blended learning program for healthcare professionals (n = 117) at five newly established PD care facilities in Japan.
Methods
The program integrated theoretical education, active learning, and role-playing exercises. Outcomes were evaluated by scores on self-rated knowledge and confidence in palliative care for PD patients, End-of-Life Professional Caregiver Survey (EPCS), and Team STEPPS Teamwork Attitudes Questionnaire.
Results
The scores for self-rated knowledge of palliative care increased from 3.36 to 5.28, and confidence improved from 3.79 to 5.05 (p < 0.001). Although overall teamwork attitudes remained stable, situation-monitoring skills improved (p = 0.045). The EPCS total score increased from 2.36 to 2.55 (p < 0.001), with improvements in all subscales. Multiple regression analysis revealed that pre-intervention knowledge (β = 0.586, p < 0.001) and professional role were associated with improvement of post-intervention knowledge scores. Notably, professional physiotherapists showed higher improvements than care management workers (β = 1.995, p = 0.002).
Conclusion
The blended learning program, combining theoretical education, active learning, and role-playing exercises, effectively enhanced the palliative care competencies of healthcare professionals in PD care facilities. Future studies should examine the long-term retention of these competencies and their impact on patient care outcomes.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Blended learning program; Healthcare professionals

Jason Aldred, Kristine Wessels, Jamie Mark, Aaron Dahl, Benjamin Reese, Beth Farber-Petrey, Alison Lewis, Richard Mustakos, Rajat Shivacharan, Mahsa Malekmohammadi,
ID# 1889890 Automated Image-Guided Programming Algorithm Supports Clinicians During DBS Programming for Parkinson's Disease Patients,
Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface,
Volume 28, Issue 7, Supplement,
2025,
Page S25,
ISSN 1094-7159,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurom.2025.08.047.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S109471592500323X)

Shobha Kumari, Sakshi Gupta, Rajesh Sukhija, Shaifali Gurjar, Sunil Kumar Dubey, Rajeev Taliyan,
Neuroprotective potential of Epigenetic modulators, its regulation and therapeutic approaches for the management of Parkinson's disease,
European Journal of Pharmacology,
Volume 985,
2024,
177123,
ISSN 0014-2999,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.177123.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014299924008136)
Abstract: The progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra region of the brain leads to a deficiency of dopamine and, ultimately, the onset of Parkinson's disease (PD). Since there is currently no cure for PD, patients all around the world are dealing with symptomatic management. PD progression is influenced by multiple elements, such as environmental, biological, chemical, genetic, and epigenetic factors. Epigenetics is gaining increased attention due to its role in controlling the expression of genes that contribute to PD. Recent advancements in our understanding of the brain network and its related conditions have shown that alterations in gene expression may occur independently of genetic abnormalities. Therefore, a thorough investigation has been carried out to explore the significance of epigenetics in all degenerative disorders. Epigenetic modifications are essential for regulating cellular homeostasis. Therefore, a deeper understanding of these modifications might provide valuable insights into many diseases and potentially serve as targets for therapeutic interventions. This review article focuses on diverse epigenetic alterations linked to the progression of PD. These abnormalities are supported by numerous research on the control of gene expression and encompass all the epigenetic processes. The beginning of PD is intricately associated with aberrant DNA methylation mechanisms. DNA methyltransferases are the enzymes that create and preserve various DNA methylation patterns. Integrating epigenetic data with existing clinical methods for diagnosing PD may aid in discovering potential curative medicines and novel drug development approaches. This article solely addresses the importance of epigenetic modulators in PD, primarily the mechanisms of DNMTs, their roles in the development of PD, and their therapeutic approaches; it bypasses other PD therapies.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Epigenesis; Epigenetic modulators; HDAC; DNMTs; DNMTs activator/inhibitor

Mengsha Qi, Yasir Shahwar, Ying Wang, Haixing Wang, Yu Jin, Jorge F. Bosch-Bayard, Chacón Lilia Morales, Pedro A. Valdes-Sosa, Maria L. Bringas-Vega,
NeuroEPO in the Neuroprotection of Parkinson’s Disease: A Study on EEG Spectrum Regulation and Mediation Mechanism,
International Journal of Psychophysiology,
Volume 213, Supplement,
2025,
112664,
ISSN 0167-8760,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2025.112664.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167876025001606)

Anson B. Rosenfeldt, Matthew C. Streicher, Ryan D. Kaya, Amanda L. Penko, Eric M. Zimmerman, James Y. Liao, Benjamin L. Walter, Jay L. Alberts,
An augmented reality dual-task intervention improves postural stability in individuals with Parkinson’s disease,
Gait & Posture,
Volume 115,
2025,
Pages 102-108,
ISSN 0966-6362,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gaitpost.2024.11.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966636224006775)
Abstract: Background
The Dual-task Augmented Reality Treatment (DART) trial recently established that dual-task training (DTT) delivered by a physical therapist or the augmented reality DART platform was effective in improving spatiotemporal gait parameters under single- and dual-task conditions in individuals with Parkinson’s disease (PD). Data regarding postural stability were not reported in the primary outcome manuscript.
Objective
The aim of this secondary analysis was to compare the effects of a Traditional DTT intervention delivered by a physical therapist and DTT delivered by the DART platform on postural stability, functional mobility, and turning in individuals with PD. It was hypothesized that both groups would experience similar improvements.
Methods
Forty-seven individuals with PD were randomized to an 8-week (16 sessions) Traditional DTT or DART intervention. The limits of stability test and the instrumented Timed Up and Go (TUG) under single- and dual-task conditions were gathered at Baseline, End of Treatment (EOT), and 8-weeks after EOT.
Results
At EOT, the Traditional DTT and DART groups experienced a 9 % and 14 % improvement in maximal excursion area and a 7 % and 12 % improvement in total TUG time under dual-task conditions, respectively (p<0.05). Turn duration and average and peak turn velocity during the TUG improved for both groups under single- and dual-task conditions at EOT. Improvements in turn duration (dual-task) and average turn velocity (single- and dual-task) persisted 8-weeks after intervention cessation.
Conclusion
Improvements in postural stability, functional mobility, and turning under single- and dual-task conditions following traditional and DART DTT in individuals with PD indicate that cognitive-motor training can be used to effectively treat postural instability in this population. Improvements in the DART group were similar to traditional DTT, supporting our previous data demontrating that DART is an effective digital therapeutic to improve gait and postural instability in individuals with PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Postural instability; Dual-task training; Augmented reality

Zuowen Zhang, Lan Shen, Yinyou Bai, Shishuang Li, Shumei Wang,
WuMei-pill alleviates Parkinson's disease induced by dopamine neuron damage in mice by regulating the gut-brain-microbiome axis,
Journal of Radiation Research and Applied Sciences,
Volume 18, Issue 3,
2025,
101632,
ISSN 1687-8507,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jrras.2025.101632.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1687850725003449)
Abstract: Objective
To investigate the protective effects and the ways WuMei-Pill (WMP) work on Parkinson's disease (PD), focusing on its ability to restore the PD-induced gut microbiota imbalance and elucidate the underlying mechanisms.
Methods
This study employed LPS-induced inflammation BV2 cells and a PD mouse model induced by 6-OHDA to explore the treatment of WMP. A series of assessments were performed, encompassing behavioral evaluations, immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and ELISA, to evaluate the neuroprotective effect of WMP on PD. Fecal and brain samples were collected for microbiome and transcriptome analysis.
Results
WMP effectively reverses LPS-induced inflammation in BV2 cells. Based on PD mouse model, WMP treatment elevated neurological motor function (evidenced by reduced pole descent time and increased rotarod performance), increased the number of TH + cells, and brain dopamine levels. Microbiome dysbiosis correlates with exacerbated PD symptoms in the 6-OHDA model. 6-OHDA-induced dopaminergic neuronal damage was connected to an increase in pro-inflammatory bacteria (Bacteroides), bacteria involved in tryptophan metabolism (Azospirillum_sp.47_25 and unclassified Bacteroidia) and cholesterol metabolism, while the number of anti-inflammatory bacteria (Roseburia) was reduced. We also found changes in key brain metabolites, including L-tryptophan and Bambuterol. WMP normalized L-tryptophan levels, a precursor of neurotoxic kynurenine metabolites implicated in PD progression.
Conclusion
Dopaminergic neuron damage-induced microbiome dysbiosis worsen Parkinson's disease symptoms. WMP restores gut microbiota composition by reducing pro-inflammatory Bacteroides and upregulating anti-inflammatory Roseburia, while modulating L-tryptophan metabolism, thereby mitigating dopaminergic neuron loss.
Keywords: Wumei pill; Parkinson's disease; Inflammation; Kynurenine pathway; Gut-brain axis

Limin Zhai, Yifei Gao, Hao Yang, Haoyuan Wang, Beining Liao, Yuxue Cheng, Chao Liu, Jingfeng Che, Kunwen Xia, Lingkun Zhang, Yanqing Guan,
A ROS-Responsive nanoparticle for nuclear gene delivery and autophagy restoration in Parkinson's disease therapy,
Biomaterials,
Volume 321,
2025,
123345,
ISSN 0142-9612,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biomaterials.2025.123345.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142961225002649)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the pathological aggregation of α-synuclein (α-syn) and neuroinflammation. Current gene therapies face challenges in nuclear delivery and resolving pre-existing α-syn aggregates. Here, we developed glucose-and trehalose-functionalized carbonized polymer dots (GT-PCDs) loaded with plasmid DNA (pDNA) for targeted gene delivery and autophagy restoration. The GT-PCDs@pDNA nanoparticles exhibit reactive oxygen species (ROS)-responsive behavior, enabling efficient nuclear entry under oxidative stress conditions. Both in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that GT-PCDs@pDNA effectively silenced SNCA gene expression, reduced α-syn aggregates, and restored autophagic flux by promoting transcription factor EB (TFEB) nuclear translocation. Moreover, GT-PCDs@pDNA enhanced blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability via glucose transporter 1 (Glut-1)-mediated transcytosis, significantly improving motor deficits and reducing neuroinflammation in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mouse model. This multifunctional nanocarrier system offers a promising strategy for combined gene therapy and autophagy modulation in neurodegenerative diseases.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Autophagy; Nuclear gene delivery; α-synuclein; ROS response

Pere Bosch-Barceló, Oriol Martínez-Navarro, Maria Masbernat-Almenara, Carlos Tersa-Miralles, Anni Pakarinen, Helena Fernández-Lago,
Gamification Integration in Technological Devices for Motor Rehabilitation in Parkinson Disease: Scoping Review,
JMIR Serious Games,
Volume 13,
2025,
,
ISSN 2291-9279,
https://doi.org/10.2196/69433.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S229192792500073X)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson disease (PD) is a rapidly growing neurological condition worldwide. While physiotherapy and exercise are effective interventions, the addition of motivational aspects that improve adherence could be beneficial for people with PD. Incorporating technological devices into motor rehabilitation, coupled with gamification elements, could enhance the relevance of rehabilitation and alleviate motor symptoms.
Objective
The aim of this scoping review was to identify and classify the technological devices that integrate gamification elements used in motor rehabilitation in PD, and to describe the justification behind the use of these devices and elements in this context.
Methods
We conducted a scoping review following the framework proposed by Joanna Briggs Institute, along with the PRISMA-ScR (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews) guidelines. Major health science databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, Scopus, Cochrane, Web of Science, PsycINFO, and Epistemonikos) were systematically searched. Relevant studies were included if they used technological interventions with gamification elements for motor symptom rehabilitation in PD. Gamification elements were extracted and categorized based on established frameworks, and content analysis was used to review the justifications for the use of technologies integrating gamification.
Results
A total of 4451 studies were retrieved from the search. After the abstract and full-text screening, 81 studies were eligible for data extraction. The analysis identified 453 gamification elements across studies, with development and accomplishment being the most prominent core drive. Progress/feedback was the most frequently used element (79/81, 98% of studies), followed by points (70/81, 86%) and levels/progression (66/81, 81%). Other notable elements included badges, leaderboards, and customization, while several core drives, like ownership and possession, lacked reported elements. Most interventions were delivered through commercial video game consoles (33/81, 41%), followed by computer-based systems (32/81, 40%). Tablet-based applications and integrated rehabilitation platforms were used in 11% (9/81) and 10% (8/81) of the studies, respectively. The expected roles of technology were clear, but intentional use of gamification was scarce.
Conclusions
This scoping review highlights the widespread adoption of technologies integrating gamification elements for motor symptom rehabilitation in individuals with PD. However, it also underscores a critical gap in understanding and justifying gamification mechanics. The current landscape relies heavily on commercial video games and emphasizes performance-based experiences, lacking theoretical grounding.
Trial Registration
OSF Registries tx3d9; https://osf.io/tx3d9
Keywords: gamification; motor rehabilitation; Parkinson disease; rehabilitation; physiotherapy

Xinming Li, Junmin Xi, Yunlong Liu, Yu Liu, Qile Liu, Bo Li, Zejun Tian, Haidong Yan, Yaru Wang, Jianguo Fang,
Assessing ferroptosis in Parkinson’s disease model by monitoring lipid peroxyl radical with an ER-targeted fluorescent probe,
Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical,
Volume 444, Part 1,
2025,
138331,
ISSN 0925-4005,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2025.138331.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925400525011074)
Abstract: Ferroptosis, driven by uncontrolled membrane lipid peroxidation, is closely related to the pathology of Parkinson’s disease (PD) and is considered a promising therapeutic target for PD. Lipid peroxyl radical (LOO•) is indispensable for the continuation and amplification of the lipid peroxidation process. Thus, fluorescent probes that can real-time monitor LOO• production in neural cells are highly desirable for understanding the role of ferroptosis in PD. Given that membrane lipid peroxidation is initially accumulated in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) during ferroptosis, we report herein the fabrication of the first ER-targeted fluorescent probes ER-Nap-LP1 and ER-Nap-LP2, for selective detection of LOO•. In vitro experiments demonstrate that both probes exhibit high selectivity and good fluorescence turn-on response to multiple forms of LOO•, of which ER-Nap-LP2 shows faster response and longer excitation/emission wavelength toward LOO•. ER-Nap-LP2 has been effectively employed to track both exogenous and endogenous LOO• in PC12 cells and zebrafish. Furthermore, with the aid of ER-Nap-LP2, we found that ER LOO• is dramatically upregulated in rotenone-induced PD model. Pretreating the cells with ferroptosis inhibitors could eliminate excessively generated LOO•, further rescuing PC12 cells from rotenone-induced cell death, indicating the therapeutic value of ferroptosis inhibitors in PD. Overall, these results demonstrate that ER-Nap-LP2 is a promising imaging tool to evaluate ferroptosis, which will facilitate the development of novel therapeutic strategies for PD.
Keywords: Fluorescent probe; Lipid peroxyl radical; Endoplasmic reticulum; Ferroptosis; Parkinson’s disease

Reem M. Gahtani, Shoaib Shoaib, Umme Hani, R. Jayachithra, Mohammad N. Alomary, Waseem Chauhan, Roshan Jahan, Saba Tufail, Mohammad Azam Ansari,
Combating Parkinson's disease with plant-derived polyphenols: Targeting oxidative stress and neuroinflammation,
Neurochemistry International,
Volume 178,
2024,
105798,
ISSN 0197-0186,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuint.2024.105798.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0197018624001256)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder predominantly affecting the elderly, characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation plays a central role in the pathogenesis of PD and other neurodegenerative diseases. An imbalance between cellular antioxidant activity and ROS production leads to oxidative stress, contributing to disease progression. Dopamine metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction, and neuroinflammation in dopaminergic neurons have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Consequently, there is a pressing need for therapeutic interventions capable of scavenging ROS. Current pharmacological approaches, such as L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (levodopa or L-DOPA) and other drugs, provide symptomatic relief but are limited by severe side effects. Researchers worldwide have been exploring alternative compounds with less toxicity to address the multifaceted challenges associated with Parkinson's disease. In recent years, plant-derived polyphenolic compounds have gained significant attention as potential therapeutic agents. These compounds exhibit neuroprotective effects by targeting pathophysiological responses, including oxidative stress and neuroinflammation, in Parkinson's disease. The objective of this review is to summarize the current understanding of the neuroprotective effects of various polyphenols in Parkinson's disease, focusing on their antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, and to discuss their potential as therapeutic candidates. This review highlights the progress made in elucidating the molecular mechanisms of action of these polyphenols, identifying potential therapeutic targets, and optimizing their delivery and bioavailability. Well-designed clinical trials are necessary to establish the efficacy and safety of polyphenol-based interventions in the management of Parkinson's disease.
Keywords: Natural medicine; Parkinson's disease; Oxidative stress; Inflammation; polyphenols

Rahul D. Jana, Hieu D. Nguyen, Guangjie Yan, Tai-Yen Chen, Loi H. Do,
Reversing Signs of Parkinsonism in a Cell Model Using Mitochondria-Targeted Organoiridium Catalysis,
Journal of Medicinal Chemistry,
Volume 68, Issue 2,
2025,
Pages 1970-1983,
ISSN 1520-4804,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c02741.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1520480425000225)
Abstract: We report the application of organoiridium complexes as catalytic agents for the detoxification of biogenic reactive aldehyde species (RASP), which are implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. We show that Ir complexes functionalized with phosphonium cations localize selectively in the mitochondria and have better cellular retention compared to that of their parent Ir species. In a cell model for Parkinsonism, the mitochondria-targeted iridium catalysts exhibited superior cell protecting abilities and longer-lasting effects (up to 6 d) than conventional RASP scavengers, which failed to be effective beyond 24 h. Our biological assays indicate that treatment with the Ir compounds led to reduction in reactive oxygen species and aldehyde levels while partially preserving the native mitochondrial membrane potential and NAD+/NADH ratio in 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium-inhibited cells. Our work is the first to demonstrate catalytic nonenzymatic detoxification of RASP in living systems.


Ying Chen, Jieming Huang, Yiming Li, Xiaochun Chen, Qinyong Ye,
Diagnostic value of six plasma biomarkers in progressive supranuclear palsy, multiple system atrophy, and Parkinson’s disease,
Clinica Chimica Acta,
Volume 565,
2025,
119975,
ISSN 0009-8981,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cca.2024.119975.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0009898124022289)
Abstract: Objectives
This study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic ability of six plasma biomarkers in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), multiple system atrophy (MSA), and different subtypes of Parkinson’s disease (PD).
Methods
Neurofilament light chain (NfL), phosphorylated tau-181, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), amyloid-β 42 (Aβ42), and amyloid-β 40 (Aβ40) levels were measured using the single-molecule array (Simoa) technique in a cohort of patients with PSP, MSA, different subtypes of PD, and healthy controls (HCs).
Results
Plasma NfL and GFAP levels were beneficial in discriminating between the disease groups and HCs. Plasma NfL, Aβ42, and Aβ40 could distinguish atypical Parkinsonian syndrome (APS) from PD and its subtypes. GFAP could discriminate APS from tremor dominant PD but could not discriminate APS from postural instability and gait disorder dominant PD. The efficacy of differentiation improved when a combination of multiple plasma biomarkers was applied.
Conclusions
In this study, the plasma biomarkers NfL, GFAP, Aβ42, and Aβ40 exhibited high discriminatory diagnostic value in PD and APS, and could be used as clinically potential diagnostic biomarkers. Plasma biomarker combinations could improve the differential diagnostic efficacy in the comparisons of PD and APS.
Keywords: atypical Parkinsonian syndromes; Parkinson’s disease; Biomarker; Neurofilament light chain; Glial fibrillary acidic protein; Amyloid-β 42; Amyloid-β 40; Panel

S Pragadeeswaran, S Kannimuthu,
Cosine deep convolutional neural network for Parkinson’s disease detection and severity level classification using hand drawing spiral image in IoT platform,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 94,
2024,
106220,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2024.106220.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809424002787)
Abstract: In recent years, the Internet of Things (IoT) is an emerging technology that plays a vital role in the early detection and diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease-affected patients using various healthcare monitoring systems at any time. The utilization of IoT in real-time by monitoring Parkinson’s disease-affected patients in-home care to enhance the quality of life. Thus in this research, a hybrid deep learning classifier Cosine Deep Convolutional Neural network (CosineDCNN) is developed for early detection and classification of Parkinson’s disease. Initially, routing is performed using the designed Sine Cosine Geese Migration Optimization (SCGA) to determine the optimal routing path to transmit the hand-drawing spiral images to the base station. At the base station, the hand-drawing spiral images are pre-processed, and augmented, and the features are extracted from them for Parkinson’s disease detection and severity classification using CosineDCNN. The results obtained from the experiment proved that the CosineDCNN achieved superior performance with 89.98 % accuracy, 87.41 % Positive Predictive Value (PPV), 89.77 % True Negative Rate (TNR), 87.82 % Negative Predictive Value (NPV), and 89.84 % True Positive Rate (TPR) as compared with other techniques. Moreover, the routing performance of the SCGA model is also computed, which recorded a minimum of 0.283mS delay and a maximum of 0.507 J energy.
Keywords: Adaptive Weiner filter; Deep Convolutional Neural Network; Wild Geese Algorithm; Sine Cosine Algorithm; Cosine similarity measure

Emil K Gustavsson, Jordan Follett, Joanne Trinh, Sandeep K Barodia, Raquel Real, Zhiyong Liu, Melissa Grant-Peters, Jesse D Fox, Silke Appel-Cresswell, A Jon Stoessl, Alex Rajput, Ali H Rajput, Roland Auer, Russel Tilney, Marc Sturm, Tobias B Haack, Suzanne Lesage, Christelle Tesson, Alexis Brice, Carles Vilariño-Güell, Mina Ryten, Matthew S Goldberg, Andrew B West, Michele T Hu, Huw R Morris, Manu Sharma, Ziv Gan-Or, Bedia Samanci, Pawel Lis, Maria Teresa Periñan, Rim Amouri, Samia Ben Sassi, Faycel Hentati, Francesca Tonelli, Dario R Alessi, Matthew J Farrer,
RAB32 Ser71Arg in autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease: linkage, association, and functional analyses,
The Lancet Neurology,
Volume 23, Issue 6,
2024,
Pages 603-614,
ISSN 1474-4422,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00121-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474442224001212)
Abstract: Summary
Background
Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with multifactorial causes, among which genetic risk factors play a part. The RAB GTPases are regulators and substrates of LRRK2, and variants in the LRRK2 gene are important risk factors for Parkinson's disease. We aimed to explore genetic variability in RAB GTPases within cases of familial Parkinson's disease.
Methods
We did whole-exome sequencing in probands from families in Canada and Tunisia with Parkinson's disease without a genetic cause, who were recruited from the Centre for Applied Neurogenetics (Vancouver, BC, Canada), an international consortium that includes people with Parkinson's disease from 36 sites in 24 countries. 61 RAB GTPases were genetically screened, and candidate variants were genotyped in relatives of the probands to assess disease segregation by linkage analysis. Genotyping was also done to assess variant frequencies in individuals with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and controls, matched for age and sex, who were also from the Centre for Applied Neurogenetics but unrelated to the probands or each other. All participants were aged 18 years or older. The sequencing and genotyping findings were validated by case–control association analyses using bioinformatic data obtained from publicly available clinicogenomic databases (AMP-PD, GP2, and 100 000 Genomes Project) and a private German clinical diagnostic database (University of Tübingen). Clinical and pathological findings were summarised and haplotypes were determined. In-vitro studies were done to investigate protein interactions and enzyme activities.
Findings
Between June 1, 2010, and May 31, 2017, 130 probands from Canada and Tunisia (47 [36%] female and 83 [64%] male; mean age 72·7 years [SD 11·7; range 38–96]; 109 White European ancestry, 18 north African, two east Asian, and one Hispanic] underwent whole-exome sequencing. 15 variants in RAB GTPase genes were identified, of which the RAB32 variant c.213C>G (Ser71Arg) cosegregated with autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease in three families (nine affected individuals; non-parametric linkage Z score=1·95; p=0·03). 2604 unrelated individuals with Parkinson's disease and 344 matched controls were additionally genotyped, and five more people originating from five countries (Canada, Italy, Poland, Turkey, and Tunisia) were identified with the RAB32 variant. From the database searches, in which 6043 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 62 549 controls were included, another eight individuals were identified with the RAB32 variant from four countries (Canada, Germany, UK, and USA). Overall, the association of RAB32 c.213C>G (Ser71Arg) with Parkinson's disease was significant (odds ratio [OR] 13·17, 95% CI 2·15–87·23; p=0·0055; I2=99·96%). In the people who had the variant, Parkinson's disease presented at age 54·6 years (SD 12·75, range 31–81, n=16), and two-thirds had a family history of parkinsonism. RAB32 Ser71Arg heterozygotes shared a common haplotype, although penetrance was incomplete. Findings in one individual at autopsy showed sparse neurofibrillary tangle pathology in the midbrain and thalamus, without Lewy body pathology. In functional studies, RAB32 Arg71 activated LRRK2 kinase to a level greater than RAB32 Ser71.
Interpretation
RAB32 Ser71Arg is a novel genetic risk factor for Parkinson's disease, with reduced penetrance. The variant was found in individuals with Parkinson's disease from multiple ethnic groups, with the same haplotype. In-vitro assays show that RAB32 Arg71 activates LRRK2 kinase, which indicates that genetically distinct causes of familial parkinsonism share the same mechanism. The discovery of RAB32 Ser71Arg also suggests several genetically inherited causes of Parkinson's disease originated to control intracellular immunity. This shared aetiology should be considered in future translational research, while the global epidemiology of RAB32 Ser71Arg needs to be assessed to inform genetic counselling.
Funding
National Institutes of Health, the Canada Excellence Research Chairs program, Aligning Science Across Parkinson's, the Michael J Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, and the UK Medical Research Council.

Edoardo Bianchini, Domiziana Rinaldi, Lanfranco De Carolis, Silvia Galli, Marika Alborghetti, Clint Hansen, Antonio Suppa, Marco Salvetti, Francesco Ernesto Pontieri, Nicolas Vuillerme,
Reliability of Average Daily Steps Measured Through a Consumer Smartwatch in Parkinson Disease Phenotypes, Stages, and Severities: Cross-Sectional Study,
JMIR Formative Research,
Volume 9,
2025,
,
ISSN 2561-326X,
https://doi.org/10.2196/63153.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2561326X2500215X)
Abstract: Background
Average daily steps (avDS) could be a valuable indicator of real-world ambulation in people with Parkinson disease (PD), and previous studies have reported the validity and reliability of this measure. Nonetheless, no study has considered disease phenotype, stage, and severity when assessing the reliability of consumer wrist-worn devices to estimate daily step count in unsupervised, free-living conditions in PD.
Objective
This study aims to assess and compare the reliability of a consumer wrist-worn smartwatch (Garmin Vivosmart 4) in counting avDS in people with PD in unsupervised, free-living conditions among disease phenotypes, stages, and severity groups.
Methods
A total of 104 people with PD were monitored through Garmin Vivosmart 4 for 5 consecutive days. Total daily steps were recorded and avDS were calculated. Participants were dichotomized into tremor dominant (TD; n=39) or postural instability and gait disorder (PIGD; n=65), presence (n=57) or absence (n=47) of tremor, and mild (n=65) or moderate (n=39) disease severity. Based on the modified Hoehn and Yahr scale (mHY), participants were further dichotomized into earlier (mHY 1‐2; n=68) or intermediate (mHY 2.5‐3; n=36) disease stages. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC; 3,k), standard error of measurement (SEM), and minimal detectable change (MDC) were used to evaluate the reliability of avDS for each subgroup. The threshold for acceptability was set at an ICC ≥0.8 with a lower bound of 95% CI ≥0.75. The 2-tailed Student t tests for independent groups and analysis of 83.4% CI overlap were used to compare ICC between each group pair.
Results
Reliability of avDS measured through Garmin Vivosmart 4 for 5 consecutive days in unsupervised, free-living conditions was acceptable in the overall population with an ICC of 0.89 (95% CI 0.85‐0.92), SEM below 10%, and an MDC of 1580 steps per day (27% of criterion). In all investigated subgroups, the reliability of avDS was also acceptable (ICC range 0.84‐0.94). However, ICCs were significantly lower in participants with tremor (P=.03), with mild severity (P=.04), and earlier stage (P=.003). Moreover, SEM was below 10% in participants with PIGD phenotype, without tremor, moderate disease severity, and intermediate disease stage, with an MDC ranging from 1148 to 1687 steps per day (18%‐25% of criterion). Conversely, in participants with TD phenotype, tremor, mild disease severity, and earlier disease stage, SEM was >10% of the criterion and MDC values ranged from 1401 to 2263 steps per day (30%‐33% of the criterion).
Conclusions
In mild-to-moderate PD, avDS measured through a consumer smartwatch in unsupervised, free-living conditions for 5 consecutive days are reliable irrespective of disease phenotype, stage, and severity. However, in individuals with TD phenotype, tremor, mild disease severity, and earlier disease stages, reliability could be lower. These findings could facilitate a broader and informed implementation of avDS as an index of ambulatory activity in PD.
Keywords: gait; Parkinson disease; phenotype; wearable sensors; smartwatch; step count; reliability; activity monitor; digital health technology; digital outcome measures; wearable; mHealth; motor; quality of life; fall; posture; mobile health

Sébastien Cordillet, Sophie Drapier, Frédérique Leh, Audeline Dumont, Florian Bidet, Isabelle Bonan, Karim Jamal,
Detecting Freezing of Gait in Parkinson Disease Using Multiple Wearable Sensors Sets During Various Walking Tasks Relative to Medication Conditions (DetectFoG): Protocol for a Prospective Cohort Study,
JMIR Research Protocols,
Volume 14,
2025,
,
ISSN 1929-0748,
https://doi.org/10.2196/58612.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1929074825000721)
Abstract: Background
Freezing of gait (FoG) is one of the most disabling symptoms of Parkinson disease (PD). Detecting and monitoring episodes of FoG are important in the medical follow-up of patients to assess disease progression and functional impact and to adjust treatment accordingly. Although several questionnaires exist, they lack objectivity. Using wearable sensors such as inertial measurement units (IMUs) to detect FoG episodes offers greater objectivity and accuracy. There is no consensus on the number and location of IMU, type of algorithm, and method of triggering and scoring the FoG episodes.
Objective
The objective of this study is to investigate the use of multiple wearable sensors sets to detect FoG in patients with PD during various walking tasks under different medication conditions.
Methods
This single-center, prospective cohort study (DetectFoG) will include 18 patients with PD. Patients will be fitted with 7 IMUs and will walk a freezing-provoking path under different tasks—“single task,” “dual motor task,” or “dual cognitive task”—and medical conditions corresponding to levodopa medication (“on” or “off”). Passages will be videotaped, and 2 movement disorder specialists will identify FoG episodes in the videos. The accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of the most effective combination of wearable sensors for detecting FoG episodes will be studied.
Results
The study is currently in the data collection phase, having commenced recruitment in February 2024. Once all data have been gathered, the data analysis will commence. As of August 2024, 3 patients have been recruited. It is anticipated that the results will be published by the end of 2025.
Conclusions
Detecting FoG episodes in various medical and clinical settings would provide a more comprehensive understanding of this phenomenon. Furthermore, it would enable reliable and objective monitoring of the progression of this symptom based on treatments and the natural course of the disease. This could serve as an objective tool for monitoring patients and assessing the severity and frequency of FoG.
Trial Registration
Clinicaltrials.gov NCT05822258; https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05822258
International Registered Report Identifier (IRRID)
DERR1-10.2196/58612
Keywords: Parkinson; detection; freezing of gait; sensor; wearable; freezing; walk; neurodegenerative; movement

Jianwei Li, Ziyu Chen, Dan Xia, Qiang Li,
Exploring the effects of quercetin and red-light stimulation on Parkinson's disease cell mechanics by atomic force microscopy,
Colloids and Surfaces B: Biointerfaces,
Volume 253,
2025,
114752,
ISSN 0927-7765,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfb.2025.114752.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0927776525002590)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder that primarily impacts middle-aged and older adults. Despite advances in research, the underlying pathophysiology of PD is not fully understood. Although quercetin (Que) and other therapeutic agents show promise in reducing neuronal damage, and certain adjuvant treatments help improve patient recovery, there is no specific drug or treatment for PD. Recent studies have demonstrated that cell mechanical properties can be important indicators of cellular health, providing a new perspective for exploring PD pathogenesis. In this study, we developed a PD cell damage model to explore changes in the mechanical characteristics of PD cells before and after treatment with Que, as well as Que combined with red-light stimulation. Atomic force microscopy was employed to investigate these mechanical alterations. Furthermore, biological assays were carried out to elucidate the mechanisms by which these treatments inhibit cell damage, which provided a new approach for evaluating the therapeutic efficacy of PD interventions.
Keywords: Atomic force microscopy; Cellular mechanics; Drug stimulation; Red light stimulation

Najlaa Hamed Almohmadi, Hayder M. Al-kuraishy, Ali I. Al-Gareeb, Ali K. Albuhadily, Ahmed M. Abdelaziz, Majid S. Jabir, Athanasios Alexiou, Marios Papadakis, Gaber El-Saber Batiha,
Glutamatergic dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases focusing on Parkinson's disease: Role of glutamate modulators,
Brain Research Bulletin,
Volume 225,
2025,
111349,
ISSN 0361-9230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111349.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361923025001613)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder resulting from the degeneration of dopamenergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Research has predominantly centered on understanding the dysfunction of dopaminergic neurotransmission in PD. Recently, more studies discussed the potential role of other neurotransmitters in PD neuropathology. One of the most important non-dopaminergic neurotransmitters involved in the pathogenesis of PD is glutamate, which is widely involved in glutamatergic neurotransmission in different brain regions, including SNpc. The development and progression of PD neuropathology and levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) are associated with glutamate neurotoxicity. Therefore, this review seeks to explore the possible involvement of glutamatergic signaling in PD development and assess the therapeutic potential of glutamate receptor antagonists in treating the disorder.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Dyskinesia; Glutamatergic neurotransmission; Glutamate neurotoxicity

Tongyue He, Junxin Chen, M. Shamim Hossain, Zhihan Lyu,
Enhanced detection of early Parkinson’ s disease through multi-sensor fusion on smartphone-based IoMT platforms,
Information Fusion,
Volume 117,
2025,
102889,
ISSN 1566-2535,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2024.102889.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1566253524006675)
Abstract: To date, Parkinson’s disease (PD) is an incurable neurological disorder, and the time of quality life can only be extended through early detection and timely intervention. However, the symptoms of early PD are both heterogeneous and subtle. To cope with these challenges, we develop a two-level fusion framework for smart healthcare, leveraging smartphones interconnected with the Internet of Medical Things and exploring the contribution of multi-sensor and multi-activity data. Rotation rate and acceleration during walking activity are recorded with the gyroscope and accelerometer, while location coordinates and acceleration during tapping activity are collected via the touch screen and accelerometer, and voice signals are captured by the microphone. The main scientific contribution is the enhanced fusion of multi-sensor information to cope with the heterogeneous and subtle nature of early PD symptoms, achieved by a first-level component that fuses features within a single activity using an attention mechanism and a second-level component that dynamically allocates weights across activities. Compared with related works, the proposed framework explores the potential of fusing multi-sensor data within a single activity, and mines the importance of different activities that correspond to early PD symptoms. The proposed two-level fusion framework achieves an AUC of 0.891 (95 % CI, 0.860–0.921) and a sensitivity of 0.950 (95 % CI, 0.888–1.000) in early PD detection, demonstrating that it efficiently fuses information from different sensor data for various activities and has a strong fault tolerance for data.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Internet of Medical Things (ioMT); Multi-sensor fusion; Smart healthcare

Yao Yao, Chun-Juan Wang, Shao-Ya Yin, Gui-zhi Xu, Yi-Feng Cheng, Qian-Qian Huang, Yi Jin,
Effects of positive psychology intervention based on the PERMA model on psychological status and quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 20,
2024,
e36902,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e36902.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024129337)
Abstract: Objective
To explore the effect of a positive psychology intervention based on the PERMA model on depressive mood and the quality of life of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
Methods
A total of 60 patients with PD with depression hospitalised between February 2022 and February 2023 were selected using a convenience sampling method. They were divided into a study group (30 cases) and control group (30 cases) using the random number table method. The control group was given routine nursing, whereas the observation group was treated using the PERMA model of positive psychological intervention. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), Parkinson's Disease Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (PDQ-39), Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAMA), Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), and Connor–Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) scores were collected and compared before and after the intervention, and patient care satisfaction after the intervention was also recorded and compared.
Results
Statistically significant differences were identified in the UPDRS (t = 4.221, p < 0.001), PDQ-39 (t = 5.331, p < 0.001), HAMD (t = 4.298, p < 0.001), HAMA (t = 3.412, p < 0.001), CD-RISC (t = 3.426, p < 0.001), and PANAS (t = 3.432, t = 4.523, p < 0.001) scores. The UPDRS, PDQ-39, HAMD, HAMA, and negative emotion scores in the study group were lower than those in the control group, whereas the CD-RISC and positive emotion scores in the study group were higher than those in the control group. A significant difference in nursing satisfaction was also determined between the two groups (Z = −2.700, p = 0.012), and this result was higher in the study group (93.33 %) than in the control group (73.33 %).
Conclusion
A positive psychology intervention using the PERMA model can effectively counter the negative psychological states of depression, anxiety, and negative emotion in patients with PD, thereby significantly improving their quality of life, psychological resilience levels, and patient satisfaction.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; PERMA model; Positive psychology; Depression

Masahiro Nakamori, Kohei Yoshikawa, Megumi Toko, Hidetada Yamada, Yuki Hayashi, Kai Ushio, Yuichi Nishikawa, Yukio Mikami, Hirofumi Maruyama,
High-density surface electromyography evaluation of the suprahyoid muscles in patients with Parkinson's disease,
Journal of the Neurological Sciences,
Volume 466,
2024,
123266,
ISSN 0022-510X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2024.123266.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022510X24004027)
Abstract: Background and purpose
High-density surface electromyography (HD-sEMG) allows non-invasive analysis of motor unit (MU) activity and recruitment. This study examines MU recruitment features as well as action potential using HD-sEMG in the suprahyoid muscles of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and assesses alterations caused by cervical percutaneous interferential current stimulation.
Methods
Electrical activity of the suprahyoid muscles during tongue elevation was measured using HD-sEMG. Maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) was measured, then the modified entropy, coefficient of variation, correlation coefficient, and root mean square (RMS) were examined. For comparison, HD-sEMG was also conducted on healthy controls. In addition, this study assessed the impact of cervical percutaneous interferential current stimulation on HD-sEMG in patients with PD (Hoehn–Yahr stages 2–4) over 8 weeks.
Results
Twenty-two patients with PD (mean age 71.7 ± 6.0, 7 females) and 14 healthy controls (mean age 74.9 ± 6.1, 7 females) were included. The RMS at 60 % MVC was significantly lower in patients with PD than in healthy controls (p = 0.007). After cervical percutaneous interferential current stimulation, the correlation coefficients at 40 % and 60 % MVC significantly decreased (p = 0.040 and p = 0.048, respectively), and the RMS at 60 % MVC significantly increased (p = 0.035).
Conclusion
HD-sEMG of the suprahyoid muscles showed characteristic findings in patients with PD and was able to detect subtle changes due to electrical stimulation intervention. Thus, HD-sEMG could be a promising tool for evaluating swallowing-related muscle conditions and interventions.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; High-density surface electromyography; Motor unit; Suprahyoid muscles; Cervical percutaneous interferential current stimulation

MOHAMMAD-SADEGH LOTFI, FATEMEH B. RASSOULI,
Pioneering a new era in Parkinson’s disease management through adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell therapy,
Biocell,
Volume 48, Issue 10,
2024,
Pages 1419-1428,
ISSN 0327-9545,
https://doi.org/10.32604/biocell.2024.053597.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0327954524001361)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is one of the fastest-growing neurodegenerative disorders worldwide. So far, PD treatments only offer little clinical relief and cannot reverse or stop the disease progression. Stem cell (SC) therapy is a rapidly evolving technology that holds significant promise for enhancing current therapeutic approaches. Adipose-derived mesenchymal SCs (AD-MSCs) have many features such as easy harvest with minimal invasive techniques, high plasticity, non-immunogenicity, and no ethical issues, which have made them suitable choices for clinical applications in regenerative research. AD-MSCs are ideal tools to treat PD, as they have the potential to differentiate into functional dopaminergic neurons, and also could produce and secrete useful paracrine factors and extracellular vesicles, such as cytokines and growth factors, and thus promote the repair and regeneration of damaged nerve tissue. Studies revealed that AD-MSCs induced angiogenesis, nerve regeneration, and memory and motor improvement in cellular and animal models of PD. Moreover, clinical studies demonstrated the safety of AD-MSC transplantation in PD patients. This review provides a comprehensive and current summary of the therapeutic potential of AD-MSC transplantation for the treatment of PD, by highlighting the ability of cells to differentiate into functional dopaminergic neurons.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Adipose derived-mesenchymal stem cells; Cell therapy; Dopaminergic neurons

Pablo I. Burgos, Carla Silva-Batista, Anjanibhargavi Ragothaman, Vrutangkumar V. Shah, Patricia Carlson-Kuhta, Fay B. Horak, Martina Mancini,
Cognition is associated with daily-life mobility in people with Parkinson’s disease,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 13,
2025,
100393,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2025.100393.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112525000970)
Abstract: Introduction
Cognitive impairment is common in people with Parkinson’s disease (PD). Mobility is also impaired in people with PD and functional mobility often requires cognitive dual-tasking to navigate complex environments in daily life. We hypothesized that visuospatial and executive cognitive dysfunction in people with PD will be associated with digital measures of mobility in daily life. Since freezing of gait (FoG) is associated with both cognitive dysfunction and mobility impairments, we also examined the influence of FoG on the cognition-mobility relationship. Here, we investigated, for the first time, the association between cognition and daily-life mobility in PD and the influence of FoG status.
Methods
60 individuals with mild-to-moderate PD (17 with FoG and 43 without FoG) wore 3 inertial sensors (lumbar and feet) for a week of passive monitoring of mobility. Digital visuospatial (Line Orientation task) and executive tasks (Set-Shifting and Flanker task) were assessed in the ON medication state.
Results
Visuospatial function was significantly associated with gait speed (r = -0.46, p = 0.008) and stride length (r = -0.40, p = 0.022). Set Shifting was significantly associated with stance time (r = -0.35, p = 0.046), double support time (r = -0.35, p = 0.046), and the variability of step duration during turning (r = 0.44, p = 0.016). The Flanker test was not associated with any gait variables. FoG status was less important than disease duration or age in the cognitive-mobility associations.
Conclusions
Specific types of cognition were related to specific gait variables in daily life. People with PD with worse visuospatial functions had worse gait pace. In contrast, participants with worse executive function (set-switching) had worse dynamic postural control during gait. FoG status showed minimal influence on these associations.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Gait; Turning; Cognition; Daily Life monitoring; Freezing of Gait

Melinda L. Johnson, Mechelle M. Lewis, Ernest W. Wang, Leslie C. Jellen, Guangwei Du, Sol De Jesus, Lan Kong, Cunfeng Pu, Xuemei Huang,
Neuropathological findings and in vivo imaging correlates of the red nucleus compared to those of the substantia nigra pars compacta in parkinsonisms,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 125,
2024,
107043,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107043.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024010551)
Abstract: Introduction
The substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) is the key pathologic locus in neurodegenerative parkinsonian disorders. Recently, in vivo susceptibility MRI metrics were associated with postmortem glial cell density and tau burden in the SNc of parkinsonism subjects. This study investigated the red nucleus (RN), another iron-rich region adjacent to the SNc and a potential site of higher functionality in parkinsonisms.
Methods
In vivo MRI and postmortem data were obtained from 34 parkinsonism subjects and 3 controls. Neuron density, glial cell density, and percentages of area occupied by α-synuclein and tau were quantified using digitized midbrain slides. R2* and quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM) metrics in the RN and SNc were derived from multi-gradient echo images. Histopathology data were compared between the RN and SNc using paired t-tests. MRI-histology associations were analyzed using partial Pearson correlations.
Results
The RN had greater neuron (t23 = 3.169, P = 0.004) and glial cell densities (t23 = 2.407, P = 0.025) than the SNc, whereas the SNc had greater α-synuclein (t28 = 4.614, P < 0.0001) and tau burden (t24 = 4.513, P = 0.0001). In both the RN (R2*: r = 0.47, P = 0.043; QSM: r = 0.52, P = 0.024) and SNc (R2*: r = 0.57, P = 0.01; QSM: r = 0.58, P = 0.009), MRI values were associated with glial cell density but not neuron density or α-synuclein (Ps > 0.092). QSM associated with tau burden (r = 0.49, P = 0.038) in the SNc, but not the RN.
Conclusions
The RN is resilient to parkinsonian-related pathological processes compared to the SNc, and susceptibility MRI captured glial cell density in both regions. These findings help to further our understanding of the underlying pathophysiological processes in parkinsonisms.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Multiple system atrophy; Progressive supranuclear palsy; Red nucleus; Susceptibility magnetic resonance imaging

Dongyan Zheng, Yixi Lai, Kailun Huang, Duanqin Guan, Zhefan Xie, Chunlai Fu, Linhua Liu, Jiewen Huang, Liya Gong, Jianqiang Li, He Zhang, Jialong Chen,
Pyroptosis mediated by Parkin-NLRP3 negative feedback loop contributed to Parkinson’s disease induced by rotenone,
International Immunopharmacology,
Volume 143, Part 3,
2024,
113608,
ISSN 1567-5769,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intimp.2024.113608.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567576924021301)
Abstract: Rotenone remains an efficient pesticide used extensively in agriculture, leading to neurotoxicity and the increase of the prevalence of Parkinson’s disease (PD). Previous studies indicated that Parkin, a neurohomeostasis regulatory factor, and NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3), a core factor driving the inflammatory response, interacted with each other, which affected neuroinflammation occurrence. However, whether rotenone accelerated PD progression via Parkin-NLRP3 loop and the specific mechanisms were still unclear. Here, a novel negative feedback mechanism of Parkin-NLRP3 that regulated PD caused by rotenone was certified. Rotenone treatment induced neurodegeneration in vitro- and vivo-models. The activation of NLRP3 inflammasome and Parkin was increased and decreased, respectively, and the expression of pyroptosis related proteins was up-regulated, because of the addition of rotenone. Notably, the overexpression of Parkin promoted NLRP3 ubiquitination, which down regulated pyroptosis mediated by NLRP3, protected mitochondrial function as well as preventing neurodegeneration. Additionally, the NLRP3 inhibitor MCC950 restored the activation of Parkin and down regulated pyroptosis mediated by NLRP3 in rotenone-induced PD. It was revealed that the Parkin-NLRP3 negative feedback loop participated in rotenone-induced PD by regulating pyroptosis, representing a new idea for the prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
Keywords: Rotenone; Parkinson’s disease; Parkin-NLRP3 negative feedback loop; Pyroptosis

Jian Li, Yuliang Zhao, Yinghao Liu, Peng Shan, Chao Lian, Xiaoai Wang, Yulin Wang,
AI scheme for high-accuracy and contactless assessment of Parkinson’s disease grades,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 100, Part B,
2025,
107025,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2024.107025.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809424010838)
Abstract: This paper addresses the significant challenges in accurately and consistently assessing Parkinson’s disease (PD) severity, particularly in elderly patients, where traditional diagnostic methods struggle with quantification and standardization. To overcome these limitations, we propose a novel, AI-based scheme for PD grade assessment that enhances accuracy and standardization while avoiding the complexities associated with wearable sensors. We collected a dataset of 110 videos from volunteers across different PD severity grades. Using MediaPipe, a contactless pose extraction model, we extracted 19 distinct kinematic features from joint movements to generate real-time kinematic data. A rigorous data screening phase was employed to eliminate irrelevant or noisy features, reducing the dimensionality of the dataset. We then evaluated PD grades using five different machine learning algorithms. Among these, the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) classifier achieved the highest performance, with an overall accuracy of 96.63% and 100% accuracy in classifying Grade 4 and Grade 5 patients. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of our AI-based scheme in providing accurate, contactless, and standardized PD severity assessments. Notably, the elimination of wearable sensors not only improves diagnostic accuracy but also enhances the feasibility of remote diagnosis, benefiting both physicians and patients. Our study underscores that the proposed AI solution represents a significant advancement in PD diagnosis by offering a reliable, sensor-free, and standardized assessment method, which is highly valuable for clinical use and remote management of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease(PD); Kinematic features; Machine learning; Grade assessment

Caterina Vicidomini, Francesco Fontanella, Tiziana D'Alessandro, Giovanni Nicola Roviello, Claudio De Stefano, Fabrizio Stocchi, Mario Quarantelli, Maria Francesca De Pandis,
Resting-state functional MRI metrics to detect freezing of gait in Parkinson's disease: a machine learning approach,
Computers in Biology and Medicine,
Volume 192, Part B,
2025,
110244,
ISSN 0010-4825,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110244.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010482525005955)
Abstract: Among the symptoms that can occur in Parkinson's disease (PD), Freezing of Gait (FOG) is a disabling phenomenon affecting a large proportion of patients, and it remains not fully understood. Accurate classification of FOG in PD is crucial for tailoring effective interventions and is necessary for a better understanding of its underlying mechanisms. In the present work, we applied four Machine Learning (ML) classifiers (Decision Tree - DT, Random Forest - RF, Multilayer Perceptron - MLP, Logistic Regression - LOG) to different four metrics derived from resting-state functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (rs-fMRI) data processing to assess their accuracy in automatically classifying PD patients based on the presence or absence of Freezing of Gait (FOG). To validate our approach, we applied the same methodologies to distinguish PD patients from a group of Healthy Subject (HS). The performance of the four ML algorithms was validated by repeated k-fold cross-validation on randomly selected independent training and validation subsets. The results showed that when discriminating PD from HS, the best performance was achieved using RF applied to fractional Amplitude of Low-Frequency Fluctuations (fALFF) data (AUC 96.8 ± 2 %). Similarly, when discriminating PD-FOG from PD-nFOG, the RF algorithm was again the best performer on all four metrics, with AUCs above 90 %. Finally, trying to unbox how AI system black-box choices were made, we extracted features' importance scores for the best-performing method(s) and discussed them based on the results obtained to date in rs-fMRI studies on FOG in PD and, more generally, in PD. In summary, regions that were more frequently selected when differentiating both PD from HS and PD-FOG from PD-nFOG patients were mainly relevant to the extrapyramidal system, as well as visual and default mode networks. In addition, the salience network and the supplementary motor area played an additional major role in differentiating PD-FOG from PD-nFOG patients.

J. Cancela González, M. Pastorino, L. Pastor-Sanz, A.P. Gonzalez Marcos, M.T. Arredondo Waldmeyer,
2.103 TECHNOLOGY AND PARKINSON'S DISEASE: STATE-OF-THE-ART AND TRENDS IN REMOTE MONITORING AND REHABILITATION,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 18, Supplement 2,
2012,
Page S102,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-8020(11)70476-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S135380201170476X)

J.M. Pignat, A. Patelli, F.R. Herrmann, E. Kaarna, A. Joutsen, M. Hallett, D.H. Benninger,
50 Hz-Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation modulates brain connectivity in Parkinson’s disease,
Clinical Neurophysiology,
Volume 174,
2025,
Pages 96-104,
ISSN 1388-2457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinph.2025.02.368.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1388245725004596)
Abstract: Objectives
High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) may modulate neuronal excitability and promote the presumed “pro-kinetic” gamma frequency, while attenuating the “anti-kinetic” beta frequency. This study explores whether 50 Hz-rTMS and intermittent Theta Burst Stimulation (iTBS), of the primary motor (M1) and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) enhance the gamma activity and functional connectivity within the motor circuit in Parkinson’s disease (PD).
Methods
We investigated pre- and post-rTMS interventional EEG in 62 PD patients following 50 Hz-rTMS and iTBS. Power spectral analysis, along with coherence and mutual information embedded in metrics of graph theory, was applied to assess the functional connectivity across the whole brain.
Results
We found changes in the cluster coefficient and local efficiency of gamma activity in the left M1 following iTBS, and wider-spread changes within the sensorimotor circuit following 50 Hz-rTMS. We found no changes in the power spectrum or entrainment of the gamma activity in the motor cortex or beyond.
Conclusion
The current 50 Hz-rTMS protocols modulate functional connectivity in PD patients, but not the power spectrum. These topological changes do not translate into clinical effects. These stimulation protocols may lack the specificity to be clinically effective.
Significance
High frequency rTMS provides new insights in brain connectivity in the gamma bandwidth.
Keywords: 50Hz-rTMS; iTBS; EEG; Brain connectivity


Key Filters merges with Parkinson Technologies,
Filtration Industry Analyst,
Volume 2010, Issue 2,
2010,
Pages 2-3,
ISSN 1365-6937,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1365-6937(10)70035-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1365693710700356)
Abstract: Key Filters Inc, a manufacturer and supplier of melt filtration equipment, has merged with its affiliate company Parkinson Technologies Inc.

Anish Mehta, Samuel Y.E. Ng, Shermyn X.M. Neo, Nicole S.Y. Chia, Ehsan S. Saffari, Thyagarajan Shivashanmugam, Xinyi Choi, Dede L. Heng, Z.Y. Xu, K.Y. Tay, W.L. Au, E.K. Tan, Louis C.S. Tan,
Assessment of social isolation and changes in Parkinson’s disease symptoms during the COVID-19 pandemic: A longitudinal study,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 12,
2025,
100293,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2024.100293.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112524000641)
Abstract: Background
COVID-19-related social restrictions provided an opportunity to evaluate the impact of social isolation on Parkinson’s disease.
Objective
This study aimed to explore changes in social isolation and their associations with PD symptoms using the Lubben Social Network Scale-Revised (LSNS-R).
Methods
Data from 80 participants of the Early Parkinson’s Disease Longitudinal Singapore cohort were collected from April 2019 to April 2023, covering the periods before and after the imposition of COVID-19 restrictions. Individuals with LSNS-R scores ≤ 24 were considered socially isolated. Data were stratified into strata 1 (improved LSNS-R scores) and strata 2 (worsened/unchanged scores). Linear regression was used to identify predictors of LSNS-R change, and MANCOVA was used to examine associations between LSNS-R change and motor/ non-motor symptoms.
Results
Mean LSNS-R scores decreased (p = 0.014), and proportions of social isolation increased (p < 0. 001) during COVID-19 restrictions. However, 35 % showed improved LSNS-R scores, while 65 % had worsened/unchanged scores. The regression model was significant in strata 1 (R2 = 0.806, p = 0.001), with age, marital status, and social isolation status being significantly associated with change in LSNS-R scores. LSNS-R. Results of MANCOVA indicated that LSNS-R improvements in LSNS-R were significantly associated with outcomes (Roy’s Largest Root statistic = 126.638, p < 0.001), particularly for changes in PDQ8, HADS-Anxiety, and HADS-Depression scores. The regression model was not significant in strata 2 (R2 = 0. 279, p = 0.206), wherein motor and non-motor symptoms worsened.
Conclusion
While worsening LSNS-R scores were associated with poorer outcomes, improvements in social networks were associated with improved non-motor symptoms and quality of life. These findings underscore the complexity of social isolation in PD and the need for targeted interventions.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Social networks; COVID-19 related social restrictions; Lubben Social Network Scale; Longitudinal study

Lola Diaz-Feliz, Pilar Sanz-Cartagena, Marcos Faundez-Zanuy, José Arbelo-Gonzalez, Pedro Garcia-Ruiz,
Computerized assessment of handwriting in de novo Parkinson's disease: A kinematic study,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 126,
2024,
107072,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107072.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024010848)
Abstract: Introduction
Dysgraphia, a recognized PD motor symptom, lacks effective clinical assessment. Current evaluation relies on motor assessment scales. Computational methods introduced over the past decade offer an objective dysgraphia assessment, considering size, duration, speed, and handwriting fluency. Objective evaluation of dysgraphia may be of help for early diagnosis of PD.
Objective
Computerized assessment of dysgraphia in de novo PD patients and its correlation with clinical scales.
Methods
We evaluated 38 recently diagnosed, premedication PD patients and age-matched controls without neurological disorders. Participants wrote “La casa de Pamplona es bonita” three times on paper and once on a Wacom tablet under the paper, totaling four phrases. Writing segments of 5–10 s were analyzed. The Wacom tablet captured kinematic data, including mean velocity, mean acceleration, and pen pressure. Data were saved in.svc format and analyzed using specialized software developed by Tecnocampus Mataró. Standard clinical practice data, Hoehn & Yahr staging, and UPDRS scales were used for evaluation.
Results
Significant kinematic differences existed; patients had lower mean speed (27 ± 12 vs. 48 ± 18, p < 0.0001) and mean acceleration (7.2 ± 3.9 vs. 15.01 ± 7, p < 0.0001) than controls. Mean speed and mean acceleration correlated significantly with UPDRS III scores (speed: r = −0.52, p < 0.0007; acceleration: r = 0.60, p < 0.0001), indicating kinematic parameters' potential in PD evaluation.
Conclusions
Dysgraphia is identifiable in PD patients, even de novo, indicating an early symptom and correlates with clinical scales, offering potential for objective PD patient evaluation.
Keywords: Handwriting; Parkinson's disease; Motor symptoms; dysgraphia

Yunxin Hu, Haoyue Wang, Yongkang Zhong, Yongqi Sun,
Retrospective analysis of diet and gut microbiota diversity and clinical pharmacology outcomes in patients with Parkinsonism syndrome,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 21,
2024,
e38645,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38645.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024146762)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a global neurodegenerative ailment impacting millions, causes significant degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Emerging research underscores the gut microbiota's role in PD onset. Yet, investigations in Chinese demographics are lacking. This study thus targets a retrospective examination of gut microbiota variety and clinical aspects in Chinese PD patients.
Methods
We retrospectively analyzed 50 PD patients' clinical data (admitted May 2021–April 2022) and compared their gut microbiota composition and abundance via 16S rDNA V3-V4 region sequencing against 50 healthy controls. The study also explored links between disease severity and PD patients' gut microbiota.
Results
We found that the gut microbiota diversity was increased in PD patients. Specifically, phyla Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Proteobacteria were more abundant, whereas Bacteroidetes was less abundant compared to controls. Gut microbiota diversity did not vary between early-vs. late-onset PD, tremor-dominant vs. non-tremor-dominant, or constipation-associated vs. non-constipation-associated subtypes. The abundance of Firmicutes was positively correlated with UPDRS (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale) III score, NMSS (Non-Motor Symptoms Scale) score, Wexner score, and PDQ-39 (Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39) score; the abundance of Actinobacteria was positively correlated with UPDRS III, NMSS, Wexner, and PDQ-39 scores; and the abundance of Bacteroidetes was negatively correlated with UPDRS III, NMSS, Wexner, and PDQ-39 scores. At the family level, the abundance of Bifidobacteriaceae, Enterobacteriaceae, and Porphyromonadaceae was positively correlated with UPDRS III, NMSS, and PDQ-39 scores.
Conclusion
Compared with healthy individuals, PD patients have increased gut microbiota diversity, and the abundance of Bifidobacteriaceae, Enterobacteriaceae, and Porphyromonadaceae is associated with the severity of both motor and non-motor symptoms in PD patients.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Gut microbiota; Motor symptoms; Non-motor symptoms

Riya Thapa, Ehssan Moglad, Muhammad Afzal, Gaurav Gupta, Asif Ahmad Bhat, Waleed Hassan almalki, Imran Kazmi, Sami I. Alzarea, Kumud Pant, Haider Ali, Keshav Raj Paudel, Harish Dureja, Thakur Gurjeet Singh, Sachin Kumar Singh, Kamal Dua,
ncRNAs and their impact on dopaminergic neurons: Autophagy pathways in Parkinson's disease,
Ageing Research Reviews,
Volume 98,
2024,
102327,
ISSN 1568-1637,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2024.102327.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568163724001454)
Abstract: Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a complex neurological illness that causes severe motor and non-motor symptoms due to a gradual loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. The aetiology of PD is influenced by a variety of genetic, environmental, and cellular variables. One important aspect of this pathophysiology is autophagy, a crucial cellular homeostasis process that breaks down and recycles cytoplasmic components. Recent advances in genomic technologies have unravelled a significant impact of ncRNAs on the regulation of autophagy pathways, thereby implicating their roles in PD onset and progression. They are members of a family of RNAs that include miRNAs, circRNA and lncRNAs that have been shown to play novel pleiotropic functions in the pathogenesis of PD by modulating the expression of genes linked to autophagic activities and dopaminergic neuron survival. This review aims to integrate the current genetic paradigms with the therapeutic prospect of autophagy-associated ncRNAs in PD. By synthesizing the findings of recent genetic studies, we underscore the importance of ncRNAs in the regulation of autophagy, how they are dysregulated in PD, and how they represent novel dimensions for therapeutic intervention. The therapeutic promise of targeting ncRNAs in PD is discussed, including the barriers that need to be overcome and future directions that must be embraced to funnel these ncRNA molecules for the treatment and management of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Autophagy; NcRNAs; MiRNAs; LncRNAs; Genetic Regulation

Marcelo D. Mendonça, Pedro Ferreira, Raquel Barbosa, Joaquim Alves da Silva,
Brain-first forms of Parkinson's disease are over-represented in patients with non-responsive resting tremor,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 201,
2024,
106691,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2024.106691.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996124002912)
Abstract: Motor subtypes in Parkinson's Disease (PD) are unstable over time, limiting mechanistic insights and biomarker discovery. We focused on Rest Tremor (RT) as a symptom to test for phenotype stability and link it to specific circuits and disease mechanisms. Using the PPMI cohort data over 5 years we found that RT is more stable than classical Tremor-Dominant definitions, a stability also seen for RT response to therapy. At time of diagnosis, the population of therapy-resistant RT patients was enriched with a brain-first PD profile as predicted by a-Synuclein origin site and connectome (SOC) model. Resistant-RT patients have lower gastrointestinal and cardiovascular symptoms, lower prevalence of probable REM-Sleep behaviour disorder, and higher dopaminergic asymmetry compared to therapy-responsive or no tremor patients. Treating RT as a distinct phenomenon revealed a relative phenotypic stability with treatment response being linked to different patterns of disease progression.
Keywords: Dopamine; Brain-first; Parkinson's disease; Rest tremor; Phenotype; Circuits

Hironobu Endo, Maiko Ono, Yuhei Takado, Kiwamu Matsuoka, Manami Takahashi, Kenji Tagai, Yuko Kataoka, Kosei Hirata, Keisuke Takahata, Chie Seki, Naomi Kokubo, Masayuki Fujinaga, Wakana Mori, Yuji Nagai, Koki Mimura, Katsushi Kumata, Tatsuya Kikuchi, Aki Shimozawa, Sushil K. Mishra, Yoshiki Yamaguchi, Hiroshi Shimizu, Akiyoshi Kakita, Hiroyuki Takuwa, Hitoshi Shinotoh, Hitoshi Shimada, Yasuyuki Kimura, Masanori Ichise, Tetsuya Suhara, Takafumi Minamimoto, Naruhiko Sahara, Kazunori Kawamura, Ming-Rong Zhang, Masato Hasegawa, Makoto Higuchi,
Imaging α-synuclein pathologies in animal models and patients with Parkinson’s and related diseases,
Neuron,
Volume 112, Issue 15,
2024,
Pages 2540-2557.e8,
ISSN 0896-6273,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2024.05.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627324003325)
Abstract: Summary
Deposition of α-synuclein fibrils is implicated in Parkinson’s disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), while in vivo detection of α-synuclein pathologies in these illnesses has been challenging. Here, we have developed a small-molecule ligand, C05-05, for visualizing α-synuclein deposits in the brains of living subjects. In vivo optical and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of mouse and marmoset models demonstrated that C05-05 captured a dynamic propagation of fibrillogenesis along neural pathways, followed by disruptions of these structures. High-affinity binding of 18F-C05-05 to α-synuclein aggregates in human brain tissues was also proven by in vitro assays. Notably, PET-detectable 18F-C05-05 signals were intensified in the midbrains of PD and DLB patients as compared with healthy controls, providing the first demonstration of visualizing α-synuclein pathologies in these illnesses. Collectively, we propose a new imaging technology offering neuropathology-based translational assessments of PD and allied disorders toward diagnostic and therapeutic research and development.
Keywords: α-synuclein; PET; in vivo; Parkinson’s disease; dementia with Lewy bodies; multiple system atrophy; mouse model; marmoset model; intravital two-photon microscopy; propagation

Yuanjiao Yan, Yifei Xu, Xiaoxia Wang, Yunxian Wang, Chenshan Huang, Rong Lin, Mingfeng Chen, Mojun Lin, Hong Li,
The effect of multi-component exercise intervention in older people with Parkinson's disease and mild cognitive impairment: A randomized controlled study,
Geriatric Nursing,
Volume 60,
2024,
Pages 137-145,
ISSN 0197-4572,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gerinurse.2024.08.028.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0197457224002775)
Abstract: A multimodal exercise training program might be the best way to improve motor and cognitive function in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), but this has yet to be fully proven in PD patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). This study aims to examine the feasibility and effectiveness of a theory-based, multi-component exercise intervention in older people with PD-MCI. Participants were randomized into an intervention group (n=23) and an active control group (n=23), receiving the theory-based multi-component exercise intervention and Parkinson's health exercises, respectively. All participants performed 60-minute exercise training sessions three times a week over a 12-week period. The retention rate at post-intervention was 95.7% (42/46) for the entire cohort. The attendance rates were 99.6% in the intervention group and 99.5% in the control group. No adverse events occurred. The intervention group showed significantly greater improvements than the control group in global cognitive function, executive function, physical motor function, balance and gait, depression, and quality of life. This study indicates that the theory-based multi-component exercise intervention demonstrates high feasibility in promoting exercise adherence and is an effective treatment option for older adults with PD-MCI.
Keywords: Dementia prevention; Exercise training; Health belief model; Mild cognitive impairment; Parkinson's disease

Bart E.K.S. Swinnen, Andrea Fuentes, Monica M. Volz, Susan Heath, Philip A. Starr, Simon J. Little, Jill L. Ostrem,
Clinically Implemented Sensing-Based Initial Programming of Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson’s Disease: A Retrospective Study,
Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface,
Volume 28, Issue 3,
2025,
Pages 501-510,
ISSN 1094-7159,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurom.2024.11.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1094715924012212)
Abstract: Objectives
Initial deep brain stimulation (DBS) programming using a monopolar review is time-consuming, subjective, and burdensome. Incorporating neurophysiology has the potential to expedite, objectify, and automatize initial DBS programming. We aimed to assess the feasibility and performance of clinically implemented sensing-based initial DBS programming for Parkinson’s disease (PD).
Materials and Methods
We conducted a single-center retrospective study in 15 patients with PD (25 hemispheres) implanted with a sensing-enabled neurostimulator in whom initial subthalamic nucleus/globus pallidus pars interna DBS programming was guided by beta power in real-time local field potential recordings, instead of a monopolar review.
Results
The initial sensing-based programming visit lasted on average 42.2 minutes (SD 18) per hemisphere. During the DBS optimization phase, a conventional monopolar clinical review was not required in any patients. The initial stimulation contact level remained the same at the final follow-up visit in all hemispheres except three. The final amplitude was on average 0.8 mA (SD 0.9) higher than initially set after the original sensing-based programming visit. One year after surgery, off-medication International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) III total score, tremor subscore, MDS-UPDRS IV, and levodopa-equivalent dose improved by 47.0% (p < 0.001), 77.7% (p = 0.001), 51.1% (p = 0.006), and 44.8% (p = 0.011) compared with preoperatively using this approach.
Conclusions
This study shows that sensing-based initial DBS programming for PD is feasible and rapid, and selected clinically effective contacts in most patients, including those with tremor. Technologic innovations and practical developments could improve sensing-based programming.
Keywords: DBS; initial programming; LFP; Parkinson’s disease; sensing

Jun Li, Linbin Wang, Yixin Pan, Peng Huang, Lu Xu, Yuyao Zhang, Dirk De Ridder, Valerie Voon, Dianyou Li,
Subthalamic nucleus oscillations during facial emotion processing and apathy in Parkinson's disease,
Journal of Affective Disorders,
Volume 373,
2025,
Pages 314-324,
ISSN 0165-0327,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jad.2025.01.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165032725000060)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is primarily characterized by motor symptoms, but patients also experience a relatively high prevalence of non-motor symptoms, including emotional and cognitive impairments. While the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a common target for deep brain stimulation to treat motor symptoms in PD, its role in emotion processing is still under investigation. This study examines the subthalamic neural oscillatory activities during facial emotion processing and its association with affective characteristics.
Methods
Twenty PD patients who underwent subthalamic deep brain stimulation surgery performed a facial-expression-recognition task while STN local field potential (LFP) and frontal electroencephalography (EEG) were recorded. The facial-emotion-induced time-frequency decomposition of the STN-LFP and the frontal EEG, as well as the LFP-EEG coherence, were analyzed. Furthermore, the correlation between STN activities and affective characteristics was examined.
Results
Facial expressions elicited increased delta-theta-band and decreased alpha-beta-band activities in STN-LFP. Reduced alpha-beta-band LFP desynchronization was correlated with the severity of apathy. Increased theta-band and decreased alpha-beta-band EEG activities responded to facial emotion. Notably, lower coherence between STN-LFP and frontal EEG in delta-theta-band activity and alpha-band activity correlated with the degree of anhedonia.
Conclusion
These results indicate that subthalamic activities during facial emotion processing are associated with apathy and anhedonia, emphasizing the cognitive-limbic function of STN and its role as a physiological target for apathy neuromodulation in PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Facial emotion; Subthalamic nucleus; Local field potential; Electroencephalography; Apathy; Anhedonia

Hai Li, Massimiliano Zecca, Jiajun Huang,
Evaluating the Utility of Wearable Sensors for the Early Diagnosis of Parkinson Disease: Systematic Review,
Journal of Medical Internet Research,
Volume 27,
2025,
,
ISSN 1438-8871,
https://doi.org/10.2196/69422.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1438887125009604)
Abstract: Background
Early diagnosis is crucial for ensuring that patients with Parkinson disease (PD) receive timely treatment, which can improve their quality of life and prolong lifespan. Wearable sensors have emerged as promising tools for early PD diagnosis, offering noninvasive, continuous symptom monitoring.
Objective
This review aimed to evaluate how wearable sensors have been applied in early diagnosis of PD over the past decade, focusing on sensor types, methods, findings, and limitations.
Methods
The systematic review was conducted following the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guidelines. Studies were sourced from PubMed, IEEE Xplore, Scopus, and Web of Science and screened based on predefined criteria. The inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) the study was observational or experimental, (2) wearable sensors were applied for the early diagnosis of PD, (3) participants were diagnosed with early-stage or prodromal PD, (4) the study included at least 10 participants with PD, and (5) the article was published between 2013 and 2023. Studies were excluded if they focused solely on treatment, rehabilitation, symptom monitoring, or nonwearable devices; lacked diagnostic clarity; were not published in English; or were not primary research articles. All the selected studies were assessed for quality using the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-2, the quality assessment tool recommended by the Cochrane Collaboration.
Results
Overall, 1888 records were retrieved from the selected databases, with 1044 records remaining after duplicate removal. Following the screening of titles and abstracts, 949 ineligible records were excluded, leaving 95 articles for eligibility. Eventually, of the 1044 studies, 12 (1.12%) met the inclusion criteria, validating the feasibility of wearable sensors in the early diagnosis of PD. Most (10/12, 83%) were cross-sectional studies, with 1 longitudinal and 1 mixed-design study. Of the 12 studies, 4 (33%) focused on identification diagnosis, 2 (17%) addressed the staged diagnosis of PD, and 1 (8%) focused on the identification of specific symptoms. Of the 12 studies, 5 (42%) assessed the overall feasibility and performance of wearable sensors in early PD detection without targeting specific classification purposes. The main wearable sensors used were inertial measurement units (8/12, 67%) and accelerometers (4/12, 33%), which primarily captured motion-related data. While initial findings suggest that wearable sensors are feasible for early PD diagnosis, the evidence is still limited by small sample sizes and short study durations.
Conclusions
Wearable sensors show promise in supporting the early diagnosis of PD, particularly for motor symptoms monitoring. However, several limitations remain in validating and applying wearable sensors in clinical contexts, including cross-sectional designs and limited diagnostic standardization. More diverse studies are needed to further validate these findings and address existing shortcomings to better advance the use of wearable sensors in the early diagnosis of PD.
Trial Registration
PROSPERO CRD42024544198; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD42024544198
Keywords: wearable sensor; Parkinson disease; early diagnosis; digital biomarkers; motor symptoms

Hongyang Fan, Sai Li, Xin Guo, Min Chen, Honggao Zhang, Yingzhu Chen,
Development and validation of a machine learning-based diagnostic model for Parkinson's disease in community-dwelling populations: Evidence from the China health and retirement longitudinal study (CHARLS),
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 130,
2025,
107182,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107182.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024011945)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a major neurodegenerative disorder in Middle-aged and elderly people.There is a pressing need for effective predictive models, particularly in chinese population. Objective:This study aims to develop and validate a machine learning-based diagnostic model to identify individuals with PD in community-dwelling populations using data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS).
Methods
We utilized data from 19,134 individuals aged 45 and above from the CHARLS dataset, with 265 adults reported to have PD. The external validation cohort included 1500 individuals, with 21 (1.4 %) having PD.The random forest (RF) algorithm was used to develop an interpretable PD prediction model, which was internally validated using 10-fold cross-validation and externally validated with a dataset from Northern Jiangsu People's Hospital. SHapley Additive exPlanation (SHAP) values were employed to elucidate the model's predictions.
Results
The RF model demonstrated robust performance with an Area Under the Curve (AUC) of 0.884 and high sensitivity, specificity, and F1 scores. The model's performance in external validation cohort, highlighting an AUC of 0.82 and an accuracy of 0.99. The model's performance remained consistent across internal and external validation cohorts. SHAP analysis provided insights into the importance and interaction of various predictors, enhancing model interpretability.
Conclusion
The study presents a highly accurate and interpretable machine learning-based diagnostic model to identify individuals with PD in middle-aged and older Chinese adults. By combined with predictive risk factors and chronic disease information, the model offers valuable insights for early identification and intervention, potentially mitigating PD progression.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Machine learning; Predictive model; CHARLS; Lifestyle factors; SHAP analysis

Chun-Hwei Tai, Sheng-Che Chou, Yen-Chen Lin, Ruey-Meei Wu, Chia-Jung Hsieh, Sheng-Hong Tseng,
The responses of subthalamic beta oscillations during voluntary movement in patients with Parkinson’s disease,
Deep Brain Stimulation,
Volume 8,
2025,
Pages 6-13,
ISSN 2949-6691,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdbs.2024.12.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2949669124000174)
Abstract: The purpose of research
We researched the beta power and other electrophysiological markers alterations during voluntary movement in Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients, in order to enhance the use of beta oscillations as a biomarker for currently developing closed-loop DBS (CL-DBS) system.
Methods
We recruited 24 patients with PD and recorded 120 sites in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) during micro-recording sessions during DBS implantation surgery. Both local field potentials (LFP) and single-units activities (SUA) were recorded concomitantly at one site during three consecutive phases: rest phase, voluntary movement phase, and post-movement rest phase. The electrophysiological data are then extracted and analyzed off-line to compare the alterations of these biomarkers during voluntary movement of the PD patients.
Results
Significant increases (17.53 % increase from baseline) in the beta oscillation power during voluntary movement (n = 208, p < 0.0001) was revealed. There was also an increase (6.79 % increase from baseline) in gamma power during voluntary movement (n = 208, p < 0.0001). Besides, there were also concomitant changes in the subthalamic spike rate and burst firing during voluntary movement.
Conclusions
The findings of alterations in beta and gamma oscillations power during voluntary movement of the PD patients will leverage the usefulness and effectiveness of these biomarkers for CL-DBS system.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Local field potential; Beta oscillations; Biomarkers; Closed-loop deep brain stimulation

Mohamed I. Fahmy, Samar S. Khalaf, Ranwa A. Elrayess,
The neuroprotective effects of alpha lipoic acid in rotenone-induced Parkinson's disease in mice via activating PI3K/AKT pathway and antagonizing related inflammatory cascades,
European Journal of Pharmacology,
Volume 980,
2024,
176878,
ISSN 0014-2999,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.176878.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014299924005673)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is an idiopathic disease caused by the loss or degeneration of the dopaminergic (dopamine-producing) neurons in the brain and characterized by various inflammatory and apoptotic responses in the neuronal cells. Phosphoinositide 3–kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) axis is responsible for neuronal survival by providing a number of anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic milieu that prevent the progression of PD. Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) is a natural cofactor that has antioxidant capacity and contributes to various metabolic processes. ALA can penetrate the blood-brain barrier and contribute to numerous neuroprotective effects. It can activate PI3K/AKT pathway with consequent reduction of different inflammatory and oxidative biomarkers. Our work aims to unfold the neuroprotective effects of ALA via targeting PI3k/AKT pathway. Forty male mice were divided into four groups: control, ALA (100 mg/kg/day; i.p.), rotenone (ROT) (1.5 mg/kg/2 days, i.p.) and rotenone + ALA for 21 days. ALA showed obvious neuroprotective effects via significant activation of PI3K/AKT pathway with subsequent decreasing level of Caspase-3. ALA resulted in prominent anti-inflammatory actions by decreasing interlukin-1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and nuclear factor kabba (NFk)-B. ALA remarkably induced antioxidant activities via increasing reduced glutathione (GSH) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels as well as decreasing malondialdehyde (MDA) level. The substantial behavioral improvement reflected in these results was noticed in the ALA-treated mice as a reflection of the neuroprotective activities of ALA. In conclusion, ALA showed promising neuroprotective effects in rotenone-induced PD via activating the PI3K/AKT pathway and consequent inhibition of apoptotic and inflammatory biomarkers.
Keywords: Parkinson; Alpha lipoic acid; Rotenone; PI3K; AKT

Hussaini Adam, Subash C.B. Gopinath, Tijjani Adam, Makram A. Fakhri, Evan T. Salim, Sreeramanan Subramaniam,
Exploring faradaic and non-faradaic electrochemical impedance spectroscopy approaches in Parkinson's disease diagnosis,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 5,
2024,
e27433,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e27433.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024034649)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative condition defined by the progressive death of dopaminergic neurons in the brain. The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease often uses time-consuming clinical evaluations and subjective assessments. Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) is a useful technique for electroanalytical devices due to its label-free performance, in-situ measurements, and low cost. The development of reliable diagnostic tools for Parkinson's disease can be significantly enhanced by exploring novel techniques like faradaic and non-faradaic EIS detection methods. These techniques have the ability to identify specific biomarkers or changes in electrochemical properties linked to Parkinson's disease, allowing for an early and accurate diagnosis. Faradaic EIS detection methods utilize redox processes on the electrode surface, while non-faradaic EIS methods rely on charge transfer or capacitive properties. EIS can identify biomarkers or changes in electrical properties as indicators of Parkinson's disease by measuring impedance at different frequencies. By combining both faradaic and non-faradaic EIS approaches, it may be possible to obtain a comprehensive understanding of the electrochemical changes occurring in Parkinson's disease patients. This may lead to the development of more effective diagnostic techniques and potentially opening up new avenues for personalized treatment strategies. This review explores the current research on faradaic and non-faradaic EIS approaches for diagnosing Parkinson's disease using electrochemical impedance spectroscopy.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Biomarker; EIS; Faradaic EIS; Non-faradaic EIS

Jinling Liu, Dong Di, Suping Sun, Yan Sun, Shihan Zhou, Jing Liu, Zizhen Qin, Xinyu Yang, Xiao Wang, Zheng Xu, Boran Zhu, Haoxin Wu,
Neuroprotective effects and mechanisms of the YiQiWenYangSanHan formula on Parkinson's disease mice,
IBRO Neuroscience Reports,
Volume 18,
2025,
Pages 528-538,
ISSN 2667-2421,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.03.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S266724212500048X)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disease, which is often treated with obvious side effects such as dopamine replacement therapy. Our team has validated the unique advantages of the traditional Chinese medicine formula, YiQiWenYangSanHan formula (YQWYSHF), through in vitro experiments, confirming its therapeutic potential for PD. Nevertheless, further research and validation are required to fully understand its protective effects and underlying mechanisms against PD.
Aim of this review
This study employed an in vivo model to investigate the effects of YQWYSHF on motor impairments, neuroinflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction in C57BL/6 J mice caused by MPTP.
Materials and methods
Sixty C57BL/6 J mice were randomly divided into 5 groups, all groups except the control group were intraperitoneally administered MPTP for 7 days (30 mg/kg). After 4 weeks of drug intragastric treatment, we assessed the dyskinesia of mice treated with different doses of YQWYSHF by behavioral examination. Additionally, immunofluorescence was used to examine the expression of ionized calcium binding adaptor protein 1 (IBA1) and glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive (GFAP) cells. Western blotting was used to assess the expression level of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), pyrin domain-containing 3 protein (NLRP3), apoptosis-associated speck-like proteins (ASC), cysteine-containing aspartate protease-1 (Caspase-1), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), α-synuclein (α-syn), poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1), and poly ADP ribose (PAR). Furthermore, transmission electron microscopy revealed mitochondrial impairment in the neuronal cells of the substantia nigra (SN).
Results
YQWYSHF treatment alleviated dyskinesia in a mouse model of PD. Moreover, it increased the TH expression, and could reverse the increase of IBA1, GFAP, NLRP3, ASC, caspase-1,IL-1β, α-syn, PARP1 and PAR proteins induced by MPTP.
Conclusions
YQWYSHF protects dopaminergic neurons in PD by attenuating neuroinflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction. This study provides new evidence for the clinical application of traditional Chinese medicine in the treatment of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; YiQiWenYangSanHan formula; Neuroinflammation; Mitochondrial dysfunction; α-synuclein

Qiong Huang, Dani Qin, Chunyan Chen, Yu Kang, Haocong Chen, Min Xu, Rao Fu, Xiaohua Dong,
SHANK2-AS3: A potential biomarker for Parkinson's disease and its role in neuronal apoptosis via NF-κB signaling in SH-SY5Y cells,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 21,
2024,
e38822,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38822.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024148530)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder primarily driven by the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, manifesting as hallmark symptoms such as muscle rigidity, tremors, and motor dysfunction, all of which severely compromise patients' quality of life. Increasing evidence highlights the critical role of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in PD pathogenesis. However, the specific involvement of SHANK2-AS3 in PD remains unclear. By reanalyzing the dysregulated lncRNAs from the GSE22491 dataset, we identified a significant upregulation of SHANK2-AS3 in PD patients compared to healthy controls. This finding was further validated in a new cohort of PD patients, where SHANK2-AS3 expression was notably elevated in peripheral blood samples. Additionally, we observed a marked increase in SHANK2-AS3 expression in MPTP-treated SH-SY5Y cells, a commonly used in vitro PD model. Functional assays demonstrated that SHANK2-AS3 knockdown attenuated MPTP-induced apoptosis, reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, and improved mitochondrial function. In contrast, SHANK2-AS3 overexpression exacerbated neuronal apoptosis. RNA sequencing and Western blot analyses revealed that the NF-κB signaling pathway is involved in SHANK2-AS3-mediated neuronal apoptosis. In summary, our findings suggest that SHANK2-AS3 plays a critical role in PD pathogenesis and represents a potential therapeutic target for mitigating neuronal damage in PD.
Keywords: SHANK2-AS3; Cell apoptosis; Parkinson's disease

Bo Shen, Qun Yao, Wei Li, Shuangshuang Dong, Haiying Zhang, Yang Zhao, Yang Pan, Xu Jiang, Dongfeng Li, Yaning Chen, Jun Yan, Wenbin Zhang, Qi Zhu, Daoqiang Zhang, Li Zhang, Yuncheng Wu,
Dynamic cerebellar and sensorimotor network compensation in tremor-dominated Parkinson's disease,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 201,
2024,
106659,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2024.106659.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996124002596)
Abstract: Aim
Parkinson's disease (PD) tremor is associated with dysfunction in the basal ganglia (BG), cerebellum (CB), and sensorimotor networks (SMN). We investigated tremor-related static functional network connectivity (SFNC) and dynamic functional network connectivity (DFNC) in PD patients.
Methods
We analyzed the resting-state functional MRI data of 21 tremor-dominant Parkinson's disease (TDPD) patients and 29 healthy controls. We compared DFNC and SFNC between the three networks and assessed their associations with tremor severity.
Results
TDPD patients exhibited increased SFNC between the SMN and BG networks. In addition, they spent more mean dwell time (MDT) in state 2, characterized by sparse connections, and less MDT in state 4, indicating stronger connections. Furthermore, enhanced DFNC between the CB and SMN was observed in state 2. Notably, the MDT of state 2 was positively associated with tremor scores.
Conclusion
The enhanced dynamic connectivity between the CB and SMN in TDPD patients suggests a potential compensatory mechanism. However, the tendency to remain in a state of sparse connectivity may contribute to the severity of tremor symptoms.

Yiwen Shen, Li Chen, Jieyi Liu, Haobo Chen, Changyan Wang, Hong Ding, Qi Zhang,
PADS-Net: GAN-based radiomics using multi-task network of denoising and segmentation for ultrasonic diagnosis of Parkinson disease,
Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics,
Volume 120,
2025,
102490,
ISSN 0895-6111,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compmedimag.2024.102490.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895611124001678)
Abstract: Parkinson disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, and its accurate diagnosis is crucial for timely intervention. We propose the PArkinson disease Denoising and Segmentation Network (PADS-Net), to simultaneously denoise and segment transcranial ultrasound images of midbrain for accurate PD diagnosis. The PADS-Net is built upon generative adversarial networks and incorporates a multi-task deep learning framework aimed at optimizing the tasks of denoising and segmentation for ultrasound images. A composite loss function including the mean absolute error, the mean squared error and the Dice loss, is adopted in the PADS-Net to effectively capture image details. The PADS-Net also integrates radiomics techniques for PD diagnosis by exploiting high-throughput features from ultrasound images. A four-branch ensemble diagnostic model is designed by utilizing two “wings” of the butterfly-shaped midbrain regions on both ipsilateral and contralateral images to enhance the accuracy of PD diagnosis. Experimental results demonstrate that the PADS-Net not only reduced speckle noise, achieving the edge-to-noise ratio of 16.90, but also attained a Dice coefficient of 0.91 for midbrain segmentation. The PADS-Net finally achieved an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve as high as 0.87 for diagnosis of PD. Our PADS-Net excels in transcranial ultrasound image denoising and segmentation and offers a potential clinical solution to accurate PD assessment.
Keywords: Parkinson disease; Transcranial ultrasound imaging; Denoising; Segmentation; Multi-task learning

JuHee Lee, Subin Yoo, Yielin Kim, Eunyoung Kim, Hyeran Park, Young H Sohn, Yun Joong Kim, Seok Jong Chung, Kyoungwon Baik, Kiyeon Kim, Jee-Hye Yoo,
Effect of the Yon PD App on the Management of Self-Care in People With Parkinson Disease: Randomized Controlled Trial,
Journal of Medical Internet Research,
Volume 27,
2025,
,
ISSN 1438-8871,
https://doi.org/10.2196/62822.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1438887125004832)
Abstract: Background
As the percentage of the older population increases, it is accompanied by an increase in the prevalence of Parkinson disease (PD). People with PD experience a range of nonmotor symptoms, including pain, constipation, dysphagia, sleep disturbances, and fatigue. Improving self-care is necessary for people with PD because it is a chronic disease that requires lifelong management. In our previous study, we developed a mobile app (Yon PD app) to monitor nonmotor symptoms of PD. In this study, we investigated the long-term effects of the app in a larger group of people.
Objective
This study aimed to examine the effectiveness of a mobile app on the management of self-care in people with PD.
Methods
This was a randomized controlled trial. People with PD aged ≥50 years and able to use a smartphone were recruited from the neurology outpatient clinic of a tertiary hospital in South Korea. In total, 102 participants were enrolled in this study. The intervention group was requested to record 5 nonmotor symptoms (pain, constipation, dysphagia, sleep disturbances, and fatigue) for 12 weeks using the mobile app. The control group was requested to record these 5 nonmotor symptoms on a paper questionnaire. General characteristics including age, sex, level of education, disease severity, and comorbidities were examined at baseline. The degree of self-care was examined using the Self-Care of Chronic Illness Inventory at baseline, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks. At 12 weeks, satisfaction with the app was also examined. General characteristics and satisfaction with the app were analyzed using descriptive statistics. The effect of the app on self-care was analyzed using the repeated-measures ANOVA with an α level of .05.
Results
In total, 93 participants were included in the analysis. There were 41 and 52 participants in the intervention and control groups, respectively. The general characteristics of the 2 groups were comparable. Monitoring nonmotor symptoms with the app effectively increased self-care maintenance (F2182=4.087; P=.02) and prevented a decrease in self-care monitoring (F2182=3.155; P=.045). However, using the app was ineffective in improving self-care management (F2182=1.348; P=.26). Self-care management gradually decreased over the 12-week period in both groups. The intervention (n=41) adherence rate reached 60.84% at 6 weeks but decreased to 41.87% by 12 weeks.
Conclusions
Participants were able to improve the degree of self-care by monitoring their nonmotor symptoms using the app. However, additional strategies that increase motivation and enjoyment are required to improve adherence.
Trial Registration
Clinical Research Information Service KCT0006433; https://tinyurl.com/3vmf435m
Keywords: Parkinson disease; mHealth; mobile health; app; neurodegenerative disease; geriatric; quality of life; bradykinesia; nonmotor symptoms; self-care; motor symptoms; cognitive impairment; autonomic; monitoring; management; randomized controlled trial

Anthaea-Grace Patricia Dennis, Antonio P. Strafella,
The role of AI and machine learning in the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease and atypical parkinsonisms,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 126,
2024,
106986,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.106986.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024009982)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative movement disorder associated with motor and non-motor symptoms causing severe disability as the disease progresses. The development of biomarkers for Parkinson's disease to diagnose patients earlier and predict disease progression is imperative. As artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques efficiently process data and can handle multiple data types, we reviewed the literature to determine the extent to which these techniques have been applied to biomarkers for Parkinson's disease and movement disorders. We determined that the most applicable machine learning techniques are support vector machines and neural networks, depending on the size and type of the data being analyzed. Additionally, more complex machine learning techniques showed increased accuracy when compared to less complex techniques, especially when multiple machine learning models were combined. We can conclude that artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques may have the capacity to significantly boost diagnostic capacity in movement disorders and Parkinson's disease.
Keywords: Parkinsonism; Parkinson's disease; Movement disorders; Biomarkers; Machine learning; Artificial intelligence

Saba Afsheen, Ahmed Shaney Rehman, Azfar Jamal, Nazia Khan, Suhel Parvez,
Understanding role of pesticides in development of Parkinson's disease: Insights from Drosophila and rodent models,
Ageing Research Reviews,
Volume 98,
2024,
102340,
ISSN 1568-1637,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2024.102340.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568163724001582)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative illness linked to ageing, marked by the gradual decline of dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain. The exact aetiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains uncertain, with genetic predisposition and environmental variables playing significant roles in the disease's frequency. Epidemiological data indicates a possible connection between pesticide exposure and brain degeneration. Specific pesticides have been associated with important characteristics of Parkinson's disease, such as mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and α-synuclein aggregation, which are crucial for the advancement of the disease. Recently, many animal models have been developed for Parkinson's disease study. Although these models do not perfectly replicate the disease's pathology, they provide valuable insights that improve our understanding of the condition and the limitations of current treatment methods. Drosophila, in particular, has been useful in studying Parkinson's disease induced by toxins or genetic factors. The review thoroughly analyses many animal models utilised in Parkinson's research, with an emphasis on issues including pesticides, genetic and epigenetic changes, proteasome failure, oxidative damage, α-synuclein inoculation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. The text highlights the important impact of pesticides on the onset of Parkinson's disease (PD) and stresses the need for more research on genetic and mechanistic alterations linked to the condition.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Neurodegenerative illness; Pesticide exposure; Dopaminergic neurons; Animal models; Mitochondrial dysfunction

Samira Hassani, Abolghasem Esmaeili,
The neuroprotective effects of ferulic acid in toxin-induced models of Parkinson's disease: A review,
Ageing Research Reviews,
Volume 97,
2024,
102299,
ISSN 1568-1637,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2024.102299.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S156816372400117X)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease is predominantly caused by dopaminergic neuron loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the accumulation of alpha-synuclein protein. Though the general consensus is that several factors, such as aging, environmental factors, mitochondrial dysfunction, accumulations of neurotoxic alpha-synuclein, malfunctions of the lysosomal and proteasomal protein degradation systems, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation, are involved in the neurodegeneration process of Parkinson's disease, the precise mechanism by which all of these factors are triggered remains unknown. Typically, neurotoxic compounds such as rotenone, 6-hydroxydopamine, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), 1-methyl 4-phenyl pyridinium (mpp+), paraquat, and maneb are used to Preclinical models of Parkinson's disease Ferulic acid is often referred to by its scientific name, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid (C10H10O4), and is found naturally in cereals, fruits, vegetables, and bee products. This substance exhibits neuroprotective effects against Parkinson's disease because of its intriguing potential, which includes anti-inflammatory and antioxidant qualities. This review goes into additional detail about Parkinson's disease and the neuroprotective properties of ferulic acid that may help prevent the condition.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Ferulic acid; Oxidative stress; Neuroinflammation; Mitochondrial disorders

Shobha Kumari, Rajesh Pradhan, Sunil Kumar Dubey, Rajeev Taliyan,
Exploration of the Therapeutic Potential of the Epigenetic Modulator Decitabine on 6‑OHDA-Induced Experimental Models of Parkinson’s Disease,
ACS Chemical Neuroscience,
Volume 16, Issue 8,
2025,
Pages 1481-1499,
ISSN 1948-7193,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00875.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1948719325001173)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) poses a global menace, as the available treatment methods solely aim to mitigate symptoms. An effective strategy to address the pathogenesis of PD involves eliminating the accumulation of aggregated alpha-synuclein, emphasizing the role of epigenetics. Aberrant epigenetic changes significantly influence gene expression, which is pivotal in PD progression, impacting neuronal growth and degeneration. Epigenetic-related genes are regulated by histone modification and DNA methylation processes. Nevertheless, their significance in PD has not been confirmed. This research was carried out using both in vitro and in vivo approaches. In the in vitro investigations, N2A neuronal cell lines were utilized, and the neuroprotective effect of decitabine (DB) was observed at concentrations of 0.1 μM and 0.5 μM. In the in vivo study, PD induction led to significant motor deficits, which were notably ameliorated at the highest treatment dose. This improvement was accompanied by a marked attenuation of inflammatory mediators, including TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, and CRP levels. Additionally, there was a significant enhancement in antioxidative defense, evidenced by increased GSH (glutathione) levels and reduced oxidative stress marker NO (nitric oxide). Neurochemical analysis revealed a substantial rise in dopamine levels, a critical PD marker, alongside an elevation in BDNF, indicating neuroprotective effects. Furthermore, gene expression analysis indicated a notable upregulation in the mRNA expression of epigenetic genes and proteins linked to PD pathology. Histological assessments, including IHC, H&E, and CV staining of the substantia nigra, showed enhanced structural integrity following treatment. Collectively, these insights reveal DB’s promise as a therapeutic solution for mitigating PD symptoms and pathology exacerbated by 6-OHDA.

Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; epigenesis; epigenetic modulator; decitabine; neuroprotection

Giulio Rigoni, Oier Zazpe, Fabiola Spolaor, Federica Cibin, Antonio Rizzetto, Daniele Volpe, Zimi Sawacha,
Reliability assessment of markerless-driven inverse kinematics and inverse dynamics in Parkinson’s disease,
Gait & Posture,
Volume 121, Supplement,
2025,
Pages 194-195,
ISSN 0966-6362,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gaitpost.2025.07.210.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966636225004667)

Qiang Ma, Jin-Lan Tian, Yao Lou, Ran Guo, Xiao-Ru Ma, Jian-Bin Wu, Jing Yang, Bing-Jie Tang, Shun Li, Mengsheng Qiu, Shumin Duan, Jing-Wei Zhao, Jing Zhang, Zhen-Zhong Xu,
Oligodendrocytes drive neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration in Parkinson’s disease via the prosaposin-GPR37-IL-6 axis,
Cell Reports,
Volume 44, Issue 2,
2025,
115266,
ISSN 2211-1247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2025.115266.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211124725000373)
Abstract: Summary
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease and is difficult to treat due to its elusive mechanisms. Recent studies have identified a striking association between oligodendrocytes and PD progression, yet how oligodendrocytes regulate the pathogenesis of PD is still unknown. Here, we show that G-protein-coupled receptor 37 (GPR37) is upregulated in oligodendrocytes of the substantia nigra and that prosaposin (PSAP) secretion is increased in parkinsonian mice. The released PSAP can induce interleukin (IL)-6 upregulation and secretion from oligodendrocytes via a GPR37-dependent pathway, resulting in enhanced neuroinflammation, dopamine neuron degeneration, and behavioral deficits. GPR37 deficiency in oligodendrocytes prevents neurodegeneration in multiple PD models. Finally, the hallmarks of the PSAP-GPR37-IL-6 axis are observed in patients with PD. Thus, our results reveal that dopaminergic neurons interact with oligodendrocytes via secreted PSAP, and our findings identify the PSAP-GPR37-IL-6 axis as a driver of PD pathogenesis and a potential therapeutic target that might alleviate PD progression in patients.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; GPR37; chronic pain; interleukin-6; oligodendrocyte; dopaminergic neuron

Corneliu Luca, Jonathan Jagid, Yi-Han Lin, Kimmy Su, Viviana Torres, Rajat Shivacharan, Lisa Moore,
ID# 1901363 Using Algorithm-Guided Programming to Treat Parkinson’s Disease Patients Implanted with Deep Brain Stimulation,
Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface,
Volume 28, Issue 7, Supplement,
2025,
Page S52,
ISSN 1094-7159,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurom.2025.08.096.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1094715925003721)

Bushra Bashir, Sukriti Vishwas, Gaurav Gupta, Keshav Raj Paudel, Harish Dureja, Puneet Kumar, Hyunah Cho, Vrashabh V. Sugandhi, Popat S. Kumbhar, John Disouza, Muralikrishnan Dhanasekaran, Bey Hing Goh, Monica Gulati, Kamal Dua, Sachin Kumar Singh,
Does drug repurposing bridge the gaps in management of Parkinson’s disease? Unravelling the facts and fallacies,
Ageing Research Reviews,
Volume 105,
2025,
102693,
ISSN 1568-1637,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2025.102693.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S156816372500039X)
Abstract: Repurposing the existing drugs for the management of both common and rare diseases is increasingly appealing due to challenges such as high attrition rates, the economy, and the slow pace of discovering new drugs. Drug repurposing involves the utilization of existing medications to treat diseases for which they were not originally intended. Despite encountering scientific and economic challenges, the pharmaceutical industry is intrigued by the potential to uncover new indications for medications. Medication repurposing is applicable across different stages of drug development, with the greatest potential observed when the drug has undergone prior safety testing. In this review, strategies for repurposing drugs for Parkinson’s disease (PD) are outlined, a neurodegenerative disorder predominantly impacting dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta region. PD is a debilitating neurodegenerative condition marked by an amalgam of motor and non-motor symptoms. Despite the availability of certain symptomatic treatments, particularly targeting motor symptoms, there remains a lack of established drugs capable of modifying the clinical course of PD, leading to its unchecked progression. Although standard drug discovery initiatives focusing on treatments that relieve diseases have yielded valuable understanding into the underlying mechanisms of PD, none of the numerous promising candidates identified in preclinical studies have successfully transitioned into clinically effective medications. Due to the substantial expenses associated with drug discovery endeavors, it is understandable that there has been a notable shift towards drug reprofiling strategies. Assessing the efficacy of an existing medication offers the additional advantage of circumventing the requirement for preclinical safety assessments and formulation enhancements, consequently streamlining the process and reducing both the duration of time and financial investments involved in bringing a treatment to clinical fruition. Furthermore, repurposed drugs may benefit from lower rates of failure, presenting an additional potential advantage. Various strategies for repurposing drugs are available to researchers in the field of PD. Some of these strategies have demonstrated effectiveness in identifying appropriate drugs for clinical trials, thereby providing validation for such strategies. This review provides an overview of the diverse strategies employed for drug reprofiling from approaches that place emphasis on single-gene transcriptional investigations to comprehensive epidemiological correlation analysis. Additionally, instances of previous or current research endeavors employing each strategy have been discussed. For the strategies that have not been yet implemented in PD research, their strategic efficacy is demonstrated using examples involving other disorders. In this review, we assess the safety and efficacy potential of prominent candidates repurposed as potential treatments for modifying the course of PD undergoing advanced clinical trials.
Keywords: Repurposing; Parkinson’s disease; Neurodegeneration; Drug repurposing strategies; Neuroprotection; Clinical studies

Suyash Jain, Shruti Patel, Kenneth Nugent,
Dyspnea in Parkinson's disease,
Respiratory Medicine,
Volume 234,
2024,
107801,
ISSN 0954-6111,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rmed.2024.107801.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0954611124002762)
Abstract: Background
Dyspnea is an important non-motor symptom in Parkinson's disease (PD) that impacts quality of life. The mechanisms underlying dyspnea have been difficult to determine due to challenges separating central respiratory control abnormalities from peripheral respiratory muscle dysfunction and chest wall rigidity.
Methods
A comprehensive literature review was conducted, searching the PubMed database for observational studies on respiratory dysfunction and dyspnea in PD. Inclusion criteria were studies with PD patients without other neurological disorders. Case studies were excluded. Data on study size, disease duration, control groups, and respiratory defects were extracted.
Results
The search yielded 23 unique publications on pulmonary function in PD. Key findings were: 1) restrictive defects are common, with prevalence up to 85 % in some studies; 2) effects of levodopa on pulmonary function are variable across studies; 3) there is limited research on the role of central respiratory centers in dyspnea pathophysiology in PD. Proposed mechanisms include direct involvement of brainstem respiratory structures, loss of dopamine input to these regions, and astrocyte dysfunction affecting respiratory rhythm generation.
Conclusion
This review outlines potential mechanisms underlying dyspnea in PD, including central respiratory dysfunction, peripheral muscle/chest wall abnormalities, impaired respiratory sensation, and medication effects. More research is needed investigating specific brainstem regions involved, chemoreceptor pathology, correlations between respiratory load and perceived dyspnea, and medication effects on pulmonary function.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Dyspnea; Respiratory dysfunction; Brainstem ventilatory control

Fereshteh Ramezani Khorsand, Bahareh Dabirmanesh, Khosro Khajeh,
Therapeutic potential of flavonoids against α-synuclein aggregation in Parkinson's Disease: Integrative in silico and in vitro analysis,
European Journal of Pharmacology,
Volume 1002,
2025,
177829,
ISSN 0014-2999,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177829.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014299925005837)
Abstract: Amyloidogenic protein aggregation is the key factor in neurodegenerative diseases. Due to the cost-effectiveness and low side effects, attention to herbal medicines has been recently increased. Flavonoids are a group of plant compounds with high potential for reducing the accumulation of amyloidogenic proteins. This research aims to identify the most effective flavonoids for inhibiting the fibrillation of α-synuclein (α-syn). For this purpose, 98 flavonoids from different databases were selected for analysis. The pharmacokinetic properties of these flavonoids were evaluated using OSIRIS and Swiss-ADME web tools. The interaction of α-syn and flavonoids was investigated in the positions predicted via DoGSiteScorer and CASTp web servers. Subsequently, luteolin and baicalein, the flavonoids with the most negative binding energy and interaction with the amino acids of α-syn amyloidogenic regions, were selected for further in vitro studies. In this phase, α-syn was incubated under fibrillation conditions in the presence and absence of flavonoid treatment. Results from the thioflavin T (ThT) fluorescence assay, atomic force microscopy (AFM), and proteinase K (PK) enzymatic digestion assay showed that baicalein and luteolin significantly inhibited α-syn fibril formation. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) demonstrated a decrease in β-sheet content and confirmed the inhibitory effect of baicalein and luteolin. In addition, cell culture analysis also showed that luteolin could increase the viability of SH-SY5Y cells exposed to α-syn fibrils by destabilizing toxic fibrils and converting them into non-toxic amorphous aggregates. These findings can be useful to develop flavonoid-based therapeutic strategies for synucleinopathies, such as Parkinson's disease (PD).
Keywords: α-synuclein; Neurodegenerative disease; Molecular docking; Flavonoid; Anti-fibrillation

Jason da Silva Castanheira, Alex I. Wiesman, Justine Y. Hansen, Bratislav Misic, Sylvain Baillet, John Breitner, Judes Poirier, Sylvain Baillet, Pierre Bellec, Véronique Bohbot, Mallar Chakravarty, Louis Collins, Pierre Etienne, Alan Evans, Serge Gauthier, Rick Hoge, Yasser Ituria-Medina, Gerhard Multhaup, Lisa-Marie Münter, Natasha Rajah, Pedro Rosa-Neto, Jean-Paul Soucy, Etienne Vachon-Presseau, Sylvia Villeneuve, Philippe Amouyel, Melissa Appleby, Nicholas Ashton, Daniel Auld, Gülebru Ayranci, Christophe Bedetti, Marie-Lise Beland, Kaj Blennow, Ann Brinkmalm Westman, Claudio Cuello, Mahsa Dadar, Leslie-Ann Daoust, Samir Das, Marina Dauar-Tedeschi, Louis De Beaumont, Doris Dea, Maxime Descoteaux, Marianne Dufour, Sarah Farzin, Fabiola Ferdinand, Vladimir Fonov, Julie Gonneaud, Justin Kat, Christina Kazazian, Anne Labonté, Marie-Elyse Lafaille-Magnan, Marc Lalancette, Jean-Charles Lambert, Jeannie-Marie Leoutsakos, Laura Mahar, Axel Mathieu, Melissa McSweeney, Pierre-François Meyer, Justin Miron, Jamie Near, Holly NewboldFox, Nathalie Nilsson, Pierre Orban, Cynthia Picard, Alexa Pichet Binette, Jean-Baptiste Poline, Sheida Rabipour, Alyssa Salaciak, Matthew Settimi, Sivaniya Subramaniapillai, Angela Tam, Christine Tardif, Louise Théroux, Jennifer Tremblay-Mercier, Stephanie Tullo, Irem Ulku, Isabelle Vallée, Henrik Zetterberg, Vasavan Nair, Jens Pruessner, Paul Aisen, Elena Anthal, Alan Barkun, Thomas Beaudry, Fatiha Benbouhoud, Jason Brandt, Leopoldina Carmo, Charles Edouard Carrier, Laksanun Cheewakriengkrai, Blandine Courcot, Doris Couture, Suzanne Craft, Christian Dansereau, Clément Debacker, René Desautels, Sylvie Dubuc, Guerda Duclair, Mark Eisenberg, Rana El-Khoury, Anne-Marie Faubert, David Fontaine, Josée Frappier, Joanne Frenette, Guylaine Gagné, Valérie Gervais, Renuka Giles, Renee Gordon, Clifford Jack, Benoit Jutras, Zaven Khachaturian, David Knopman, Penelope Kostopoulos, Félix Lapalme, Tanya Lee, Claude Lepage, Illana Leppert, Cécile Madjar, David Maillet, Jean-Robert Maltais, Sulantha Mathotaarachchi, Ginette Mayrand, Diane Michaud, Thomas Montine, John Morris, Véronique Pagé, Tharick Pascoal, Sandra Peillieux, Mirela Petkova, Galina Pogossova, Pierre Rioux, Mark Sager, Eunice Farah Saint-Fort, Mélissa Savard, Reisa Sperling, Shirin Tabrizi, Pierre Tariot, Eduard Teigner, Ronald Thomas, Paule-Joanne Toussaint, Miranda Tuwaig, Vinod Venugopalan, Sander Verfaillie, Jacob Vogel, Karen Wan, Seqian Wang, Elsa Yu, Isabelle Beaulieu-Boire, Pierre Blanchet, Sarah Bogard, Manon Bouchard, Sylvain Chouinard, Francesca Cicchetti, Martin Cloutier, Alain Dagher, Samir Das, Clotilde Degroot, Alex Desautels, Marie Hélène Dion, Janelle Drouin-Ouellet, Anne-Marie Dufresne, Nicolas Dupré, Antoine Duquette, Thomas Durcan, Lesley K. Fellows, Edward Fon, Jean-François Gagnon, Ziv Gan-Or, Angela Genge, Nicolas Jodoin, Jason Karamchandani, Anne-Louise Lafontaine, Mélanie Langlois, Etienne Leveille, Martin Lévesque, Calvin Melmed, Oury Monchi, Jacques Montplaisir, Michel Panisset, Martin Parent, Minh-Thy Pham-An, Jean-Baptiste Poline, Ronald Postuma, Emmanuelle Pourcher, Trisha Rao, Jean Rivest, Guy Rouleau, Madeleine Sharp, Valérie Soland, Michael Sidel, Sonia Lai Wing Sun, Alexander Thiel, Paolo Vitali,
The neurophysiological brain-fingerprint of Parkinson’s disease,
eBioMedicine,
Volume 105,
2024,
105201,
ISSN 2352-3964,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105201.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352396424002366)
Abstract: Summary
Background
Research in healthy young adults shows that characteristic patterns of brain activity define individual “brain-fingerprints” that are unique to each person. However, variability in these brain-fingerprints increases in individuals with neurological conditions, challenging the clinical relevance and potential impact of the approach. Our study shows that brain-fingerprints derived from neurophysiological brain activity are associated with pathophysiological and clinical traits of individual patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD).
Methods
We created brain-fingerprints from task-free brain activity recorded through magnetoencephalography in 79 PD patients and compared them with those from two independent samples of age-matched healthy controls (N = 424 total). We decomposed brain activity into arrhythmic and rhythmic components, defining distinct brain-fingerprints for each type from recording durations of up to 4 min and as short as 30 s.
Findings
The arrhythmic spectral components of cortical activity in patients with Parkinson’s disease are more variable over short periods, challenging the definition of a reliable brain-fingerprint. However, by isolating the rhythmic components of cortical activity, we derived brain-fingerprints that distinguished between patients and healthy controls with about 90% accuracy. The most prominent cortical features of the resulting Parkinson’s brain-fingerprint are mapped to polyrhythmic activity in unimodal sensorimotor regions. Leveraging these features, we also demonstrate that Parkinson’s symptom laterality can be decoded directly from cortical neurophysiological activity. Furthermore, our study reveals that the cortical topography of the Parkinson’s brain-fingerprint aligns with that of neurotransmitter systems affected by the disease’s pathophysiology.
Interpretation
The increased moment-to-moment variability of arrhythmic brain-fingerprints challenges patient differentiation and explains previously published results. We outline patient-specific rhythmic brain signaling features that provide insights into both the neurophysiological signature and symptom laterality of Parkinson’s disease. Thus, the proposed definition of a rhythmic brain-fingerprint of Parkinson’s disease may contribute to novel, refined approaches to patient stratification. Symmetrically, we discuss how rhythmic brain-fingerprints may contribute to the improved identification and testing of therapeutic neurostimulation targets.
Funding
Data collection and sharing for this project was provided by the Quebec Parkinson Network (QPN), the Pre-symptomatic Evaluation of Novel or Experimental Treatments for Alzheimer’s Disease (PREVENT-AD; release 6.0) program, the Cambridge Centre for Aging Neuroscience (Cam-CAN), and the Open MEG Archives (OMEGA). The QPN is funded by a grant from Fonds de Recherche du Québec - Santé (FRQS). PREVENT-AD was launched in 2011 as a $13.5 million, 7-year public-private partnership using funds provided by McGill University, the FRQS, an unrestricted research grant from Pfizer Canada, the Levesque Foundation, the Douglas Hospital Research Centre and Foundation, the Government of Canada, and the Canada Fund for Innovation. The Brainstorm project is supported by funding to SB from the NIH (R01-EB026299-05). Further funding to SB for this study included a Discovery grant from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada of Canada (436355-13), and the CIHR Canada research Chair in Neural Dynamics of Brain Systems (CRC-2017-00311).
Keywords: Movement disorders; Parkinson’s disease; Neural dynamics; Oscillations; Arrhythmic brain activity; Magnetoencephalography; Brain-fingerprinting

Alex Iranzo, Valerie Cochen De Cock, María Livia Fantini, Laura Pérez-Carbonell, Lynn Marie Trotti,
Sleep and sleep disorders in people with Parkinson's disease,
The Lancet Neurology,
Volume 23, Issue 9,
2024,
Pages 925-937,
ISSN 1474-4422,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00170-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474442224001704)
Abstract: Summary
Sleep disorders are common in people with Parkinson's disease. These disorders, which increase in frequency throughout the course of the neurodegenerative disease and impair quality of life, include insomnia, excessive daytime sleepiness, circadian disorders, obstructive sleep apnoea, restless legs syndrome, and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behaviour disorder. The causes of these sleep disorders are complex and multifactorial, including the degeneration of the neural structures that modulate sleep, the detrimental effect of some medications on sleep, the parkinsonian symptoms that interfere with mobility and comfort in bed, and comorbidities that disrupt sleep quality and quantity. The clinical evaluation of sleep disorders include both subjective (eg, questionnaires or diaries) and objective (eg, actigraphy or video polysomnography) assessments. The management of patients with Parkinson's disease and a sleep disorder is challenging and should be individualised. Treatment can include education aiming at changes in behaviour (ie, sleep hygiene), cognitive behavioural therapy, continuous dopaminergic stimulation at night, and specific medications. REM sleep behaviour disorder can occur several years before the onset of parkinsonism, suggesting that the implementation of trials of neuroprotective therapies should focus on people with this sleep disorder.

Marta Magriço, Bruna Meira, Marco Fernandes, Manuel Salavisa, João Pedro Marto, Raquel Barbosa, Paulo Bugalho,
Missing appointments in Parkinson´s Disease: A longitudinal study on the pattern of attendance and its effects on motor and non-motor symptoms, quality of life and disability progression,
Clinical Neurology and Neurosurgery,
Volume 247,
2024,
108641,
ISSN 0303-8467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clineuro.2024.108641.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303846724005286)
Abstract: Background and purpose
Parkinson's Disease (PD) requires regular therapeutic adjustments and ongoing outpatient clinic follow-up. Nevertheless, the impact of appointment non-attendance on PD patients concerning the different symptomatic dimensions of the condition remains uncertain. We compared the level of attendance of PD and Essential Tremor (ET) patients and assessed the value of attendance variables as predictors of progression in cognition, motor dysfunction, affect, disability and health-related quality of life in PD.
Methods
The number of attended, no-shows and cancelled appointments of PD and ET patients were collected over 4 years. PD patients were assessed at baseline and 4 years later with the Non-Motor Symptoms Scale (NMSS), cognition (MoCA), disability (Schwab and England [S&E]), motor dysfunction (UPDRS-III), health-related quality of life measured with EQ-5D and hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS). Linear regression (univariate) was used to test the correlation between the number of appointments (predictors) and absolute change in the NMSS, MoCA, S&E, UPDRS-III, EQ-5D and HADS.
Results
62 PD and 35 ET patients were assessed. PD patients attended more appointments (8,08 ± 3,13 vs 5,43 ± 2,09) and had a similar number of no-shows (0,39 ± 0,66 vs 0,46 ± 0,70) and cancelled (0,74 ± 0,88 vs 0,54 ±0,65) appointments than ET patients. In the univariate analysis there was a significant relation between the number of cancelled appointments and change in the S&E score (B=6375; p=0022).
Conclusion
Our findings suggest the number of cancelled appointments, but not no-shows, could be considered a predictor of disability progression in PD.
Keywords: Attendance; Parkinson disease; Disability; Appointments

Jennifer Sally Samson, Kalyanaraman Rajagopal, Venkatachalam Deepa Parvathi,
Outlook of SNCA (α-synuclein) transgenic fly models in delineating the sequel of mitochondrial dysfunction in Parkinson’s disease,
Brain Research,
Volume 1852,
2025,
149505,
ISSN 0006-8993,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149505.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899325000630)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder associated with mechanisms that results in loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) region of the brain. Being a complex heterogeneous disorder, there is a requisite in discovering the underlying molecular signatures that could potentially help in resolving challenges associated with diagnosis as well as therapeutic management. SNCA gene that encodes for the protein α-synuclein is widely known for its indispensable role in aggravating the progression of sporadic and familial PD, upon mutations. Likewise, mitochondrial dysfunction is inferred to be playing a central role in both forms of PD. Observations from experimental models and human PD cases displayed strong evidence for disruption of mitochondrial dynamics, inhibition of mitochondrial complex I protein’s function and elevation in reactive oxygen species (ROS) by the toxic aggregation of α-synuclein. Further, recent studies have raised the possibility of an underlying relationship, where the α-synuclein toxicity is exacerbated by the mutant mitochondrial complex proteins and vice-versa. In this review, we provide an overview of mechanisms influencing α-synuclein-related neurodegeneration, particularly, emphasizing the role of SNCA (α-synuclein) gene in leading to altered mitochondrial biogenesis during PD. We have described how transgenic Drosophila models were reliable at recapitulating some of the essential characteristics of PD. In addition, we highlight the capability of utilizing transgenic fly models in deciphering the altered α-synuclein toxicity and mitochondrial dysfunction, as induced by defects in the mitochondrial DNA.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; SNCA (α-synuclein); Drosophila melanogaster; Mitochondrial dysfunction; Oxidative stress; Targeted enhancer/suppressor screening

Negar Ebadpour, Mahmoud Mahmoudi, Ramiar Kamal Kheder, Mohammad Abavisani, Zahra Baridjavadi, Narges Abdollahi, Seyed-Alireza Esmaeili,
From mitochondrial dysfunction to neuroinflammation in Parkinson’s disease: Pathogenesis and mitochondrial therapeutic approaches,
International Immunopharmacology,
Volume 142, Part A,
2024,
113015,
ISSN 1567-5769,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intimp.2024.113015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567576924015364)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a prevalent and intricate neurological condition resulting from a combination of several factors, such as genetics, environment, and the natural process of aging. Degeneration of neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SN) can cause motor and non-motor impairments in patients with PD. In PD’s etiology, inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction play significant roles in the disease’s development. Studies of individuals with PD have revealed increased inflammation in various brain areas. Furthermore, mitochondrial dysfunction is an essential part of PD pathophysiology. Defects in the components of the mitochondrial nucleus, its membrane or internal signaling pathways, mitochondrial homeostasis, and morphological alterations in peripheral cells have been extensively documented in PD patients. According to these studies, neuroinflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction are closely connected as pathogenic conditions in neurodegenerative diseases like PD. Given the mitochondria’s role in cellular homeostasis maintenance in response to membrane structural flaws or mutations in mitochondrial DNA, their dynamic nature may present therapeutic prospects in this area. Recent research investigates mitochondrial transplantation as a potential treatment for Parkinson’s disease in damaged neurons. This review delves into the impact of inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction on PD occurrence, treatment approaches, and the latest developments in mitochondrial transplantation, highlighting the potential consequences of these discoveries.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Neurodegenerative disease; Neuroinflammation; Mitochondria; Mitotherapy

Maryam Sadeghi, Thomas Bristow, Sodiq Fakorede, Ke Liao, Jacqueline A. Palmer, Kelly E. Lyons, Rajesh Pahwa, Chun-Kai Huang, Abiodun Akinwuntan, Hannes Devos,
The Effect of Sensory Reweighting on Postural Control and Cortical Activity in Parkinson's Disease: A Pilot Study,
Archives of Rehabilitation Research and Clinical Translation,
Volume 6, Issue 4,
2024,
100368,
ISSN 2590-1095,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arrct.2024.100368.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590109524000661)
Abstract: Objective
To investigate the effects of sensory reweighting on postural control and cortical activity in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) compared to age-matched controls using a virtual reality sensory organization test (VR-SOT).
Design
Cross-sectional pilot study.
Setting
University research laboratory.
Participants
Ten participants with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and 11 age- and sex-matched control participants without neurologic disorders.
Interventions
Not applicable.
Main Outcome Measures
Changes in center of pressure (COP) and electroencephalography (EEG) activity (ie, power) in the alpha band and the theta/beta ratio recorded during the VR-SOT were the main outcome variables.
Results
PD participants exhibited greater COP displacement, particularly in the mediolateral direction across sensory conditions. They also showed increased alpha power when relying on visual inputs and increased theta/beta ratio power when depending on somatosensory inputs.
Conclusion
PD affects sensory reweighting mechanisms involved in postural control, as evidenced by greater COP displacement and altered cortical activity. These findings emphasize the potential of EEG and VR-SOT in understanding and monitoring postural control impairments in PD.
Keywords: Center of pressure; Electroencephalography; Parkinson's disease; Postural control; Rehabilitation; Sensory reweighting; Virtual reality

Niamh Moriarty, Tyra D. Fraser, Cameron P.J. Hunt, Georgia Eleftheriou, Jessica A. Kauhausen, Lachlan H. Thompson, Clare L. Parish,
Exercise promotes the functional integration of human stem cell-derived neural grafts in a rodent model of Parkinson’s disease,
Stem Cell Reports,
Volume 20, Issue 5,
2025,
102480,
ISSN 2213-6711,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stemcr.2025.102480.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213671125000840)
Abstract: Summary
Human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)-derived dopamine neurons can functionally integrate and reverse motor symptoms in Parkinson’s disease models, motivating current clinical trials. However, dopamine neuron proportions remain low and their plasticity inferior to fetal tissue grafts. Evidence shows exercise can enhance neuron survival and plasticity, warranting investigation for hPSC-derived neural grafts. We show voluntary exercise (wheel running) significantly increases graft plasticity, accelerating motor recovery in animals receiving ectopic, but not homotopic, placed grafts, suggestive of threshold requirements. Plasticity was accompanied by increased phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK+) cells in the graft (and host), reflective of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-ERK signaling, a downstream target of glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), proteins that were also elevated. Verifying improved graft integration was the increase in cFos+ postsynaptic striatal neurons. These findings have direct implications for the adoption of physical therapy-based approaches to enhance neural transplantation outcomes in future Parkinson’s disease clinical trials.
Keywords: exercise; neural plasticity; transplantation; dopamine; human pluripotent stem cells; Parkinson’s disease; graft integration

Chiranjeevee R. Saravanan, Reem Faiz Hussein Eisa, Elizabeth Gaviria, Amani Algubari, Kiran Kishor Chandrasekar, Pugazhendi Inban, Priyadarshi Prajjwal, Hyma Bamba, Gurmehar Singh, Mohammed Dheyaa Marsool Marsool, Srikanth Gadam,
The efficacy and safety of gene therapy approaches in Parkinson's disease: A systematic review,
Disease-a-Month,
Volume 70, Issue 7,
2024,
101754,
ISSN 0011-5029,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.disamonth.2024.101754.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0011502924000804)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the brain. Despite existing treatments, there remains an unmet need for therapies that can halt or reverse disease progression. Gene therapy has been tried and tested for a variety of illnesses, including PD. The goal of this systematic review is to assess gene therapy techniques' safety and effectiveness in PD clinical trials.
Methods
Online databases PubMed/Medline, and Cochrane were used to screen the studies for this systematic review. The risk of bias of the included studies was assessed using standard tools.
Results
Gene therapy can repair damaged dopaminergic neurons from the illness or deal with circuit anomalies in the basal ganglia connected to Parkinson's disease symptoms. Rather than only treating symptoms, this neuroprotective approach alters the illness itself. Medication for gene therapy is currently administered at the patient's bedside. It can hyperactivate specific brain circuits associated with motor dysfunction. PD therapies are developing quickly, and there aren't enough head-to-head trials evaluating the safety and effectiveness of available treatments. When choosing an advanced therapy, patient-specific factors should be considered in addition to the effectiveness and safety of each treatment option.
Conclusion
In comparison to conventional therapies, gene therapy may be advantageous for PD. It may minimize side effects, relieve symptoms, and offer dependable dopamine replacement.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Gene therapy; Neurodegeneration; Dopaminergic neurons; Motor dysfunction

Giulio Rigoni, Oier Zazpe, Niccolò Monaco, Fabiola Spolaor, Federica Cibin, Antonio Rizzetto, Daniele Volpe, Zimi Sawacha,
Non-invasive gait analysis approaches for Parkinson's disease: assessing the reliability of various markerless methods,
Gait & Posture,
Volume 121, Supplement,
2025,
Pages 193-194,
ISSN 0966-6362,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gaitpost.2025.07.209.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966636225004655)

Nikita Kozulin, Anastasiya Migulina, Denis Mokrushin, Gurgen Soghoyan, Aleksandr Artemenko, Artur Biktimirov,
Identification of electromyographic patterns of bradykinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 20,
2024,
e39014,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024150451)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease characterized by rest tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia. Assessing the severity of these symptoms is typically done using the third part of the Movement Disorder Society-Sponsored Revision of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS III), relying on subjective evaluations by neurologists, which may lead to challenges in result interpretation. To address this issue, incorporation of surface electromyography (sEMG) in diagnostics.
Objectives
The aim of the study is to search for specific sEMG patterns that allow assessing the severity of bradykinesia.
Method
This case-control study involved 8 patients with PD at Hoehn & Yahr stages 2–3, and 7 healthy volunteers. sEMG was measured while the subjects performed the "finger tapping" and "hand movements" tests of the MDS-UPDRS III. The tests were conducted both before and after levodopa intake to identify patterns indicating changes in motor functions. During the tests, we observed the peak activity of the sEMG signal, reflecting the moments of activation of individual muscle groups involved in the implementation of the movement. Peak activity was characterized by the total number of maximum sEMG signal extrema and the distance between them. The data were compared with the healthy group.
Results
Peak activity increased after levodopa intake, indicating a reduction in bradykinesia. This feature partially correlates with clinicians' assessments and enhances the similarity of predictions by the MDS-UPDRS III scoring model to physician scores.
Conclusions
The results show the effectiveness of using sEMG and the number of peaks corresponding to the moments of muscle activation to assess bradykinesia.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Electromyography; Bradykinesia; Levodopa; MDS-UPDRS

Carlos Platero, José Ángel Pineda-Pardo,
Temporal ordering of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease patients based on disease progression models,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 129,
2024,
107184,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107184.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024011969)
Abstract: Introduction
Identifying Parkinson's disease (PD) patients at risk of cognitive decline is crucial for enhancing clinical interventions. While several models predicting cognitive decline in PD exist, a new machine learning framework called disease progression models (DPMs) offers a data-driven approach to understand disease evolution.
Methods
We enrolled 423 PD patients and 196 healthy controls from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI). Our study encompassed a range of biomarkers, including motor, neurocognitive, and neuroimaging evaluations at baseline and annually. A methodology was employed to select optimal combinations of biomarkers for constructing DPMs with superior predictive capabilities for both diagnosing and estimating conversion times toward cognitive decline.
Results
At baseline, the approach showed excellent performance in identifying individuals at high risk of cognitive decline within the first five years. Furthermore, the proposed timeline from cognitive impairment to dementia was also used to explore clinical events such as the onset of cognitive impairment, the development of dementia or amyloid pathology. The presence of amyloid pathology did not alter the progression of cognitive impairment among PD patients.
Conclusions
Neuropsychological measures and certain biomarkers, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) amyloid beta 42 (Aβ42) and dopamine transporter deficits, can be used to predict cognitive decline and estimate a timeline from cognitive impairment to dementia, with amyloid pathology preceding the onset of dementia in many cases. Our DPMs suggested that the profiles of CSF Aβ42 and phosphorylated tau in PD patients may differ from those in aging patients and those with Alzheimer's disease.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Cognitive decline; AD CSF biomarkers; Disease progression models

Seung-Min Jeong, Young-Do Song, Chae-Lin Seok, Jun-Young Lee, Eui Chul Lee, Han-Joon Kim,
Machine learning-based classification of Parkinson's disease using acoustic features: Insights from multilingual speech tasks,
Computers in Biology and Medicine,
Volume 182,
2024,
109078,
ISSN 0010-4825,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109078.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010482524011636)
Abstract: This study advances the automation of Parkinson's disease (PD) diagnosis by analyzing speech characteristics, leveraging a comprehensive approach that integrates a voting-based machine learning model. Given the growing prevalence of PD, especially among the elderly population, continuous and efficient diagnosis is of paramount importance. Conventional monitoring methods suffer from limitations related to time, cost, and accessibility, underscoring the need for the development of automated diagnostic tools. In this paper, we present a robust model for classifying speech patterns in Korean PD patients, addressing a significant research gap. Our model employs straightforward preprocessing techniques and a voting-based machine learning approach, demonstrating superior performance, particularly when training data is limited. Furthermore, we emphasize the effectiveness of the eGeMAPSv2 feature set in PD analysis and introduce new features that substantially enhance classification accuracy. The proposed model, achieving an accuracy of 84.73 % and an area under the ROC (AUC) score of 92.18 % on a dataset comprising 100 Korean PD patients and 100 healthy controls, offers a practical solution for automated diagnosis applications, such as smartphone apps. Future research endeavors will concentrate on enhancing the model's performance and delving deeper into the relationship between high-importance features and PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Acoustic features; Machine learning; Diagnosis; Multilingual speech tasks

Vineeta Singh, Arshdeep Kaur Sethi, Shivani Rath, Nidhi Kumari, Damini Shukla, Vijaya Nath Mishra,
Chapter 8 - Toxin-induced animal models in Parkinson's disease: Recent updates,
Editor(s): Sachchida Nand Rai, Santosh Kumar Singh, Veer Singh,
Advancements in Modeling-Based Therapeutics and Technology for Chronic Diseases,
Academic Press,
2026,
Pages 227-252,
ISBN 9780443338779,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-443-33877-9.00006-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780443338779000069)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder primarily affecting older adults. It is characterized by motor symptoms such as tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia, resulting from the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. While PD's etiology is multifaceted, toxin-induced models have significantly advanced our understanding of its pathogenesis and potential treatments. Key environmental neurotoxins used in PD research include 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, 6-hydroxydopamine, paraquat, and rotenone. These compounds can cross the blood–brain barrier and selectively damage dopamine neurons, mimicking PD pathology through mechanisms involving mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation. Researchers use various model systems to study toxin-induced PD, including rodents, primates, zebrafish, and invertebrates. The effectiveness of these models depends on the route of administration and concentration of neurotoxins. Understanding these parameters is crucial for accurately reproducing Parkinsonian features in research settings and developing novel therapeutic strategies.
Keywords: Dopaminergic neurons; Environmental neurotoxins; Nervous system disorder; Parkinson's disease; Toxicity; Toxin-induced models

Luca Marsili, Jesus Abanto, Abhimanyu Mahajan, Kevin R. Duque, Nathaly O. Chinchihualpa Paredes, Heba A. Deraz, Alberto J. Espay, Matteo Bologna,
Dysrhythmia as a prominent feature of Parkinson's disease: An app-based tapping test,
Journal of the Neurological Sciences,
Volume 463,
2024,
123144,
ISSN 0022-510X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2024.123144.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022510X2400279X)
Abstract: Introduction
Smartphone applications (apps) are instruments that assist with objective measurements during the clinical assessment of patients with movement disorders. We aim to test the hypothesis that Parkinson's disease (PD) patients will exhibit an increase in tapping variability and a decrease in tapping speed over a one-year period, compared to healthy controls (HC).
Methods
Data was prospectively collected from participants enrolled in our Cincinnati Cohort Biomarker Program, in 2021–2023. Participants diagnosed with PD and age-matched HC were examined over a one-year-interval with a tapping test performed with customized smartphone app. Tapping speed (taps/s), inter-tap intervals and variability (movement regularity), and sequence effect were measured.
Results
We included 295 PD patients and 62 HC. At baseline, PD subjects showed higher inter-tap variability than HC (coefficient-of-variation-CV, 37 ms [22–64] vs 26 ms [8–51]) (p = 0.007). Conversely, there was no difference in inter-tap intervals (411 ms [199–593] in PD versus 478 ms [243–618] in HC) and tapping speed (3.42[2.70–4.76] taps/s in PD versus 3.21 taps/s [2.57–4.54] in HC) (p > 0.05). Only PD subjects (n = 135), at the one-year follow-up, showed a decreased tapping speed vs baseline (3.44 taps/s [2.86–4.81] versus 3.39 taps/s [2.58,4.30]) (p = 0.036), without significant changes in inter-tap variability (CV, 32 ms [18,55] baseline versus 34 ms [22,59] follow-up) (p = 0.142). No changes were found in HC at the one-year follow up (all p values>0.05).
Conclusions
Inter-tap variability (dysrhythmia) but no inter-tap intervals or tapping speed are reliably distinctive feature of an app-based bradykinesia assessment in PD.
Keywords: Bradykinesia; Smartphone; Wearable sensors; Technology; Parkinson's disease

Lakshmi Thangavelu, Ehssan Moglad, Muhammad Afzal, Waleed Hassan Almalki, H. Malathi, Pooja Bansal, Bindu Rani, Chakshu Walia, GV Sivaprasad, Pranchal Rajput, Mohd Imran,
Non-coding RNAs in Parkinson's disease: Regulating SNCA and alpha-synuclein aggregation,
Pathology - Research and Practice,
Volume 261,
2024,
155511,
ISSN 0344-0338,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prp.2024.155511.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0344033824004229)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease is one of the vital neurodegenerative ailments attributed to a rise in Alpha-synuclein proteins leading to the advancement of motor and cognitive deterioration. Interestingly, in PD lncRNAs, miRNAs and siRNAs are also key regulators of SNCA and alpha-synuclein aggregation. This review will focus on the roles of these three types of small RNAs in trebling the development of PD through regulating SNCA expression or alpha-synuclein protein mediating the RNA from acting. Parkinson’s disease is deﬁned by the build-up of alpha-synuclein protein resulting predominantly from the elevated expression level of the SNCA gene. Non-coding RNAs have gained broad appeal as fundamental modulators of gene expression and protein aggregation dynamics, with significant implications on the aetiology of PD. LncRNAs modulate SNCA transcription and edit epigenetic modifications, while miRNA target mRNA is involved in the stability and translation of count alpha-synuclein. Considering all these data, siRNAs can achieve the precise gene silencing effect that directly induces the downregulation of SNCA mRNA. This review also summarizes some recent reports about the interaction between these ncRNAs with the SNCA gene and alpha-synuclein protein, each through its independent in addition to synergistic mechanisms. This review highlights the possibility of therapeutic interventions to perturb SNCA expression to prevent alpha-synuclein aggregation via targeting ncRNAs that might be spun off novel drug development for PD.
Keywords: SNCA; Alpha-synuclein aggregation; Parkinson's; NcRNAs; Biomarker

Harpreet Kaur, Devansh Swadia, Sharmistha Sinha,
Bile Acids as Modulators of α‑Synuclein Aggregation: Implications for Parkinson’s Therapy,
ACS Chemical Neuroscience,
Volume 15, Issue 21,
2024,
Pages 4055-4065,
ISSN 1948-7193,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00459.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1948719324003062)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the aggregation of α-synuclein into toxic amyloid fibrils. Recent research suggests that bile acids altered in PD may influence their aggregation. This study investigates the effects of lithocholic acid (LCA) and deoxycholic acid (DCA) on α-synuclein aggregation and toxicity. LCA significantly accelerates aggregation, reducing the lag phase by 75%, while DCA has a milder impact, decreasing the lag phase by 30%. Binding studies show that LCA interacts with the NAC region and DCA with the N-terminal region of α-synuclein. Aggregation assays and electrophoresis reveal that LCA promotes the formation of toxic, SDS-resistant oligomers more effectively than DCA. Cytotoxicity assays confirm a lower cell viability in LCA-treated samples. Additionally, combined LCA and DCA treatment results in enhanced aggregation and toxicity, indicating a synergistic effect. These findings highlight the role of bile acids in α-synuclein aggregation and PD pathogenesis, suggesting that targeting bile acid metabolism could be a therapeutic strategy for PD.

Keywords: α-synuclein; bile acids; protein aggregation; amyloid fibril; Parkinson’s disease.

Jianing Mei, Yu Wang, Dongyu Zhu, Yang Li, Kan Gu, Zijun Wei, Xueyi Han, Qianqian Li, Shuyun Jiang, Yunyun Zhang,
The comparison of gait disorders among different motor subtypes in Parkinson’s disease patients during the early and middle stages,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 12,
2025,
100309,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2025.100309.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112525000131)
Abstract: Background and Purpose
There is a scarcity of quantitative research on gait differences among patients with different motor subtypes of Parkinson’s disease (PD), especially during the early and middle stages of the condition. The purpose of this study is to describe the gait characteristics of PD with different motor subtypes in the early and middle stages and to identify the most sensitive indicators of gait impairment.
Methods
General information, including age, gender, disease duration, levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD), and falls, was collected. Motor and non-motor symptoms of PD were assessed using multiple scales. Patients’ walking function and lower limb joint movement ability were analyzed using a 3D gait analysis system.
Results
The study included 64 patients with early and middle-stage PD, of whom 33 were classified as the TD subtype, 24 were classified as the PIGD subtype, and 7 were classified as the Mixed subtype. In addition, 5 healthy subjects were included in the evaluation as healthy controls. The PIGD patients have significantly higher LEDD (431.08 ± 250.90 mg vs. 302.08 ± 164.64 mg, p = 0.034) and a higher number of falls (0.29 vs. 0.00, p = 0.018) than the TD patients. The overall gait disturbances and motor and non-motor symptoms did not exhibit significant differences between TD and PIGD patients. However, the decrease in GDI (β = −0.730 vs. β = −0.235, p = 0.043) and hip flexion and extension range (β = −0.533 vs. β = −0.470, p < 0.001) was more pronounced in PIGD patients compared to TD patients as the MDS-UPDRS Ⅲ score increased.
Conclusion
There is no significant difference in gait severity between patients with TD and PIGD subtypes during the early and middle stages of PD. However, PIGD patients exhibit a more rapid progression of gait impairment than TD, particularly affecting hip mobility.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Motor subtypes; Gait disorders; Gait analysis

Mengyu Li, Magnús Magnússon, Ingibjörg Kristjánsdóttir, Sigrún Helga Lund, Thilo van Eimeren, Lotta M. Ellingsen,
Region-based U-nets for fast, accurate, and scalable deep brain segmentation: Application to Parkinson Plus Syndromes,
NeuroImage: Clinical,
Volume 47,
2025,
103807,
ISSN 2213-1582,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nicl.2025.103807.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213158225000774)
Abstract: The early diagnosis of age-related neurodegenerative diseases, which often progress to dementia, poses significant clinical challenges due to subtle and overlapping symptoms of these diseases at early stage. Automated MRI segmentation is important for early detection, as it offers consistent measurements and the ability to detect subtle structural changes in the brain. Manual segmentation is impractical for large datasets or clinical use. Deep learning approaches provide fast processing, however, they often encounter graphics processing unit (GPU) memory constraints when handling large datasets. Here we introduce a deep learning-based approach using region-based U-nets specifically designed to segment 12 deep-brain structures relevant to Parkinson Plus Syndromes. By dividing the brain image into targeted regions around the brainstem, ventricular system, and striatum, our method optimizes GPU usage and significantly reduces training times, while maintaining high accuracy. Validating the proposed method on three datasets, including a 660-subject clinical dataset comprising both healthy controls and patients with various movement disorders, we demonstrate robustness and practical applicability in separating different diseases. The method achieves superior segmentation performance compared to state-of-the-art methods, with a mean Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC) of 0.90, a 95% Hausdorff Distance (HD95) of 1.35 mm, and an Average Symmetric Surface Distance (ASSD) of 0.45 mm, showcasing its segmentation accuracy and robustness. Furthermore, our method outperforms these methods by reducing training time from several days to a few hours while providing a processing time of less than a second per subject. The source code and trained model will be made publicly available on GitHub.
Keywords: MRI; Segmentation; Deep neural networks; Parkinson-plus syndromes; Brainstem; Ventricles; Striatum

Lixia Yang, Haihua Huang, Yue Fan, Lei Xu, Xiaoming Jin, Baoguo Xiao, Cungen MA, Huijie Fan, Zhi Chai,
Astragaloside IV ameliorates Parkinson's disease by inhibiting TLR4/NF-κB-dependent neuroinflammation,
International Immunopharmacology,
Volume 160,
2025,
114972,
ISSN 1567-5769,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intimp.2025.114972.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567576925009622)
Abstract: Astragaloside IV (AS-IV) is a bioactive compound derived from Radix Astragali, a traditional Chinese herb widely used as a dietary supplement to enhance immune function. Modern pharmacological studies have demonstrated that AS-IV exhibits anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties. In this study, we investigated the effects of AS-IV on motor dysfunction, microglial polarization, and immune regulation mechanisms in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced Parkinson's disease (PD) mouse model. Our results showed that AS-IV (40 mg/kg) significantly improved motor function in PD mice, as evidenced by reduced descent time in the pole test, increased hanging score in the hanging test, increased stride lengths, and reduced paw angle in the gait test. Furthermore, AS-IV administration attenuated the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), promoted microglial polarization from the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype to the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, suppressed the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα), enhanced the levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-4 (IL-4) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) in the SNpc of PD mice. Mechanistically, AS-IV significantly downregulated the expression and phosphorylation levels of TLR4/p38 (JNK)/NF-κB pathway-related proteins, including Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), Myeloid differentiation primary response protein 88 (MyD88), Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1), Mitogen-activated protein kinase 3/6 (MKK3/6), Phosphorylated-MKK3/6 (p-MKK3/6), Phosphorylated-mitogen-activated protein kinase 4/7 (p-MKK4/7), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38), Phosphorylated-p38 (p-p38), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), Phosphorylated-JNK (p-JNK), nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB), and Phosphorylated-NF-κB (p-NF-κB). To further validate the targeting effect of AS-IV, 1 mg/kg of LPS-EB Ultrapure was utilized as a specific TLR4 agonistwe to selectively activated the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway without triggering other inflammatory pathways, leading to elevated mRNA levels of TLR4, NF-κB, IL-1β, IL-6, TNFα and protein expression of TLR4, p-JNK, p-p38, p-NF-κB, IL-1β, IL-6, TNFα in the SNpc of PD mice. Importantly, AS-IV pretreatment can't counteract these LPS-EB Ultrapure-triggered effects, demonstrating its dependence on the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway. In conclusion, our findings indicate that AS-IV modulates microglial polarization and attenuates neuroinflammation by inhibiting the TLR4/NF-κB pathway, thereby ameliorating motor dysfunction and neuronal loss in PD mice.
Keywords: Astragaloside IV; Parkinson's disease; Microglial polarization; Neuroinflammation; Toll-like receptor 4

Da-Wei Zhou, Meng Yin, Yun Shen, Xiao-Xue Wang, Chen-Yu Wang, Ke-Zheng Chen, Qi Fang, Sheng-Lin Qiao,
LDHzyme-assisted high-performance on-site tracking of levodopa pharmacokinetics for Parkinson's disease management,
Biosensors and Bioelectronics,
Volume 268,
2025,
116926,
ISSN 0956-5663,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bios.2024.116926.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956566324009333)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder marked by the loss of dopaminergic neurons and the consequent decline in motor and cognitive functions. The primary therapeutic agent levodopa necessitates precise dosing due to its narrow therapeutic window and complex pharmacokinetics. This study presents the development of a novel CuCoFe-LDHzyme-based sweat sensor for real-time monitoring of levodopa concentration in PD patients. Employing differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) technique, the sensor demonstrates high sensitivity and selectivity, achieving a detection limit of 28.1 nM. The sensor's design allows for non-invasive, continuous monitoring, significantly enhancing patient convenience compared to traditional blood sampling methods. Through pH correction, precise quantification of levodopa in sweat is accomplished, and a strong correlation (Pearson coefficient = 0.833) with blood levodopa levels is established. The pharmacokinetic profile of levodopa is reconstructed in real-time, offering a promising tool for optimizing PD treatment regimens. This study highlights the potential of CuCoFe-LDHzyme sensors to advance personalized treatment strategies, aiming to improve the quality of life for PD patients by providing clinicians with real-time data for medication adjustments.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Levodopa; Electrochemical sensors; Nanoenzymes; Sweat monitoring

Hongwei Li, Xiali Shao, Jia Jia, Bingyi Wang, Jian Wang, Kai Liu, Jinhan Chen, Zhensen Chen, Lirong Jin, He Wang,
A multi-modal study on cerebrovascular dysfunction in cognitive decline of de novo Parkinson’s disease,
NeuroImage: Clinical,
Volume 48,
2025,
103836,
ISSN 2213-1582,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nicl.2025.103836.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213158225001068)
Abstract: Background
Vascular risk factors are increasingly implicated in Parkinson’s disease (PD), but the role of altered cerebrovascular dysfunction in early-stage PD remains unclear. Here, we investigated resting-state cerebrovascular reactivity (RS-CVR), cerebral blood flow (CBF), arterial morphological changes, and corresponding alterations in functional connectivity density (FCD) in de novo PD patients with different cognitive status.
Methods
25 de novo PD patients with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI), 34 with normal cognition (PD-NC), and 48 healthy controls (HCs) underwent neuropsychological assessments and multimodal MRI. CBF derived from arterial spin labeling, RS-CVR and FCD generated from resting-state functional MRI and the arterial morphology extracted from the magnitude images of multi-echo gradient echo.
Results
RS-CVR significantly decreased in PD patients, particularly in the left occipital gyrus and posterior cerebral artery (PCA) territories. Long-range FCD was reduced in the left inferior occipital gyrus in both PD-NC and PD-MCI compared to HCs (p = 0.005, p < 0.001). In PD-MCI, negative correlations between Stroop Color-Word Test time and RS-CVR in the distal right PCA (r = −0.71, pFDR = 0.030) and middle left PCA (r = −0.66, pFDR = 0.044) were observed. A significant correlation was found between decreased long-range FCD in the left inferior occipital gyrus and poorer Trail Making Test Part B performance (r = −0.63, pFDR = 0.029) in the PD-MCI. No significant differences in CBF, but significant dilation of the left PCA and compensatory CBF increases in the corresponding territory in PD-MCI were found (r = 0.57, pFDR = 0.023).
Discussion
Microvascular dysfunction, rather than perfusion defects, might underlie early-stage of the de novo PD, especially in the patients with PD-MCI.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; MRI; Cerebrovascular reactivity; Vascular function; Cognitive impairment
