Yifan Song, Jiajia Xu, Alaba Tolulope Agbele,
Advancements in ultrasonography and MRI for enhanced diagnosis of Parkinson's disease: An updated review,
Journal of Radiation Research and Applied Sciences,
Volume 17, Issue 3,
2024,
101015,
ISSN 1687-8507,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jrras.2024.101015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1687850724001997)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurological illness characterized by symptoms such as bradykinesia (slowness of movement), tremor, rigidity, and postural instability. Diagnosing parkinsonian syndromes (PS) can be challenging, even for specialized neurology centers, due to the high rate of diagnostic errors. This review article highlights the challenges in diagnosing PS and the importance of accurately differentiating it from PD. It discusses the utility of various magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques and transcranial ultrasound (TUS) in improving diagnostic accuracy. The focus is on both conventional and cutting-edge MRI procedures, including T2*/T2-weighted MRI, susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI), diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), magnetization transfer imaging (MTI), magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), and ultra-high-resolution MRI. These advanced techniques have shown promising potential in aiding diagnosis and identifying early signs of PD. The review emphasizes the clinical relevance of these imaging modalities in discriminating PD from other parkinsonian disorders and detecting early-stage disease before the onset of clinical symptoms.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Substantia nigra; Magnetic resonance imaging; Transcranial ultrasound; Diagnostic imaging

Yiyuan Li, Xuexing Luo, Aijia Zhang, Fangtian Ying, Jue Wang, Guanghui Huang,
The potential of arts therapies in Parkinson's disease rehabilitation: A comprehensive review,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 16,
2024,
e35765,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e35765.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024117963)
Abstract: Background and purpose
Parkinson's disease (PD) causes a decline in motor function, cognitive decline, and impacts the mental health of patients. Due to the high cost and side effects of conventional treatments, the medical community has begun to explore safer and more cost-effective alternative therapies. In this context, arts therapies have gained increasing attention as innovative treatments. This review plans to explore the role and potential of various arts therapies in the rehabilitation of PD patients by analyzing existing literature and case studies.
Methods
This review comprehensively searched the literature in several databases, including PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure, to assess the effectiveness of different arts therapies in the rehabilitation of patients with PD.
Results
From 3440 articles screened, 16 met the inclusion criteria. These studies included a variety of therapies, including music, meditation, yoga, art, dance, theatre, video games and play therapy. These different types of arts therapies had a positive impact on the motor, psychological and cognitive rehabilitation of PD patients, respectively.
Conclusion
The existing literature highlights the great potential of arts therapies in the rehabilitation of people with PD, further confirming the efficacy of arts therapies in enhancing the motor, psychological and cognitive rehabilitation process of people with PD. In addition, this review identifies research gaps in the use of color therapy in PD rehabilitation and highlights the need for further exploration of various arts therapies modalities.
Keywords: Parkinsonian disorders; Rehabilitation; Arts therapies; Complementary therapies; Psychotherapy

Xiuping Guo, Xubai Qiao, Xinru Li, Wenkai Zhou, Chang Liu, Feifei Yu, Qingbo Chen, Mingyu Pan, Xia Niu, Xiaomei Wang, Guiling Li, Lulu Wang,
Lactoferrin-modified organic-inorganic hybrid mesoporous silica for co-delivery of levodopa and curcumin in the synergistic treatment of Parkinson's disease,
Phytomedicine,
Volume 140,
2025,
156547,
ISSN 0944-7113,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156547.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0944711325001874)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder primarily characterized by oxidative stress and dopaminergic neuron damage. While levodopa remains the cornerstone of PD treatment, its efficacy is limited by poor bioavailability and neuroprotective effects. Curcumin, a potent antioxidant derived from turmeric, demonstrates neuroprotective promise but also suffers from low bioavailability, hindering its therapeutic application. The combined therapeutic use of levodopa and curcumin offers a potential synergistic approach, though its neuroprotection potential through brain-targeted delivery remains underexplored.
Purpose
To develop a lactoferrin-modified organic-inorganic hybrid mesoporous silica nanoparticle system (Lf-lip@LC-MSNs) for co-delivering levodopa and curcumin, aiming to enhance neuroprotective efficacy and achieve brain-targeted delivery in PD.
Methods
Lf-lip@LC-MSNs were engineered to encapsulate levodopa within a curcumin-loaded lipid bilayer, modified with lactoferrin for optimized brain-targeted delivery. In vitro studies were conducted on rotenone-damaged neuronal models to evaluate oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, α-synuclein aggregation, and neuronal survival. In vivo experiments on MPTP-induced PD mouse models evaluated biodistribution, therapeutic efficacy, and safety in healthy mice, focusing on motor function recovery.
Results
The combination of levodopa and curcumin significantly reduced oxidative stress and α-synuclein accumulation, enhancing neuronal survival compared to monotherapies. Lf-lip@LC-MSNs further amplified these effects, achieving superior brain-targeted delivery and improved motor function restoration with minimal systemic toxicity.
Conclusions
The combination of curcumin and levodopa provided synergistic neuroprotection in PD models. By employing a targeted delivery system, the Lf-lip@LC-MSNs not only facilitated efficient brain targeting but also potentiated therapeutic outcomes, providing a compelling strategy for treating PD and paving the way for advancements in managing other neurodegenerative diseases.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Curcumin; Levodopa; Lactoferrin; Mesoporous silica; Oxidative stress

Jing Li, Yan Xu, Xiaoming Liu, Fan Yang, Wenliang Fan,
Cortical morphological alterations in cognitively normal Parkinson’s disease with severe hyposmia,
Brain Research,
Volume 1844,
2024,
149150,
ISSN 0006-8993,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149150.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899324004049)
Abstract: Olfactory dysfunction is a common non-motor symptom of Parkinson’s disease(PD) and may hold valuable insights into the disease’s underlying pathophysiology. This study aimed to investigate cortical morphometry alterations in PD patients with severe hyposmia(PD-SH) and mild hyposmia(PD-MH) using surface-based morphometry(SBM) methods. Participants included 36 PD-SH patients, 38 PD-MH patients, and 40 healthy controls(HCs). SBM analysis revealed distinct patterns of cortical alterations in PD-SH and PD-MH patients. PD-MH patients exhibited reduced cortical thickness in the right supramarginal gyrus, while PD-SH patients showed widespread cortical thinning in regions including the bilateral pericalcarine cortex, bilateral lingual gyrus, left inferior parietal cortex, left lateral occipital cortex, right pars triangularis, right cuneus, and right superior parietal cortex. Moreover, PD-SH patients displayed reduced cortical thickness in the right precuneus compared to PD-MH patients. Fractal dimension analysis indicated increased cortical complexity in PD-MH patients’ right superior temporal cortex and right supramarginal gyrus, as well as decreased complexity in the bilateral postcentral cortex, left superior parietal cortex, and right precentral cortex. Similarly, cortical gyrification index and cortical sulcal depth exhibited heterogeneous patterns of changes in PD-SH and PD-MH patients compared to HCs. These findings underscore the multifaceted nature of olfactory impairment in PD, with distinct patterns of cortical morphometry alterations associated with different degrees of hyposmia. The observed discrepancies in brain regions showing alterations reflect the complexity of PD’s pathophysiology. These insights contribute to a deeper understanding of olfactory dysfunction in PD and provide potential avenues for early diagnosis and targeted interventions.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Hyposmia; Cortical morphometry; Non-motor symptoms; Structural changes; Disease progression

Xiaomei Liang, Yutong Wen, Cuilian Feng, Lan Xu, Ying Xian, Haiting Xie, Jianou Huang, Yihong Huang, Xiaodong Zhao, Xiaoya Gao,
Neuroglobin protects dopaminergic neurons in a Parkinson’s cell model by interacting with mitochondrial complex NDUFA10,
Neuroscience,
Volume 562,
2024,
Pages 43-53,
ISSN 0306-4522,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.10.033.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030645222400544X)
Abstract: The study aimed to validate the protective effect of neuroglobin (Ngb) in a cell model of Parkinson’s disease (PD) and explore its therapeutic potential. Lentivirus-Ngb (LvNgb) and siRNA-Ngb (siNgb) were used to achieve Ngb overexpression and knockdown, respectively, in a sporadic PD cell model. Apoptosis was evaluated by flow cytometry-based Annexin V/propidium iodide assays. Activation of the pro-apoptotic factor, Caspase-9, was detected by immunoblotting, and Complex I activities were detected by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Mitochondrial dysfunction was examined by measuring the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), NAD+/NADH ratios, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. Additionally, coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays were conducted in mouse neuroblastoma cell line 9D (MN9D) cells to determine the interactions of Ngb with the Complex I subunit NDUFA10. The results showed that Ngb overexpression reduced the percentages of apoptotic cells, total caspase-9 levels and restored Complex I activities in the PD cell model. Conversely, knockdown of Ngb resulted in an increase in apoptotic cells, higher total caspase-9 levels, and decreased Complex I activities. Furthermore, Ngb overexpression restored MMP and NAD+/NADH ratios and alleviated ROS-mediated oxidative stress in MN9D cells. Finally, Co-IP confirmed the interaction between Ngb and NDUFA10 in MN9D cells. In conclusion, Ngb protects MN9D cells against apoptosis by interacting with Complex I subunit NDUFA10, rescuing its activity and inhibiting the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis in the MPP+-mediated PD model.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Neuroglobin; NDUFA10; Mitochondrial Complex I; Cell model

Sourabarna Roy, Tannistha Pal, Swapan Debbarma,
A Comparative Analysis of Advanced Machine Learning Algorithms to diagnose Parkinson's Disease,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 235,
2024,
Pages 122-131,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2024.04.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050924006914)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent and debilitating neurological disorder affecting millions worldwide, necessitating early and precise diagnosis for effective management and therapy. Recent breakthroughs in artificial intelligence (AI) applications within the medical field have showcased promising potential in disease identification and diagnosis. This study presents a comprehensive analysis of cutting-edge AI-based methods for the identification of Parkinson's disease. This paper encompasses extensive testing on substantial datasets containing both PD patients and healthy individuals, aiming to assess the efficacy of AI models. Performance metrics such as sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC-ROC) are employed to evaluate model performance rigorously. This paper is not only reviewing the state-of-the-art AI techniques for Parkinson's disease identification but also introduces novel contributions in the field. Our results demonstrate the potential of AI in achieving early and accurate PD diagnosis, offering hope for improved patient care and treatment outcomes. Furthermore, this study paves the way for future research and development in the domain of AI-driven healthcare, with the ultimate goal of enhancing the quality of life for individuals suffering from Parkinson's disease and similar neurodegenerative conditions.
Keywords: Parkinson disease; Symptoms; Magnetic resonance imaging; Diagnosis

Lalin L Laudis, Lenin Fred A, Asral Bahari Jambek,
A Nature Inspired Optimization Algorithm for Parkinson's Disease Classification Through Speech Analysis,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 235,
2024,
Pages 840-851,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2024.04.080.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050924007567)
Abstract: This research takes a unique approach to improve the accuracy of Parkinson's disease prediction through speech signal analysis by turning to the natural world for inspiration. This research proposes an optimization algorithm modelled on the hunting strategies of eagles. This approach begins with the extraction of Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCCs) from the audio signals. Subsequently, the proposed algorithm, inspired by the keen eyesight and hunting strategy of eagles, is employed to select the most relevant MFCC features. This optimization ensures a reduced dimensionality while maintaining the integrity and relevance of the feature set. Eagle's highly effective three-pronged approach to hunting - consisting of soaring (exploring), scanning (assessing), and swooping (taking action) - is the starting point for this method. To put this into practice, the proposed algorithm treats each potential combination of audio signal features as a 'solution', or 'prey'. The usefulness or 'fitness' of each solution is evaluated according to how accurately it can predict Parkinson's disease using a Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier on a validation dataset. At the start, our algorithm generates an array of solutions. It then takes an 'eagle's eye view', assessing and refining these solutions in successive iterations. This mimics the eagle's hunt, where it identifies its target from a distance, before swooping in to capture it. By testing the proposed eagle-inspired algorithm on the Parkinson's Disease Voice Initiative (PDVI) dataset, it was found that it offers better accuracy in differentiating between those with Parkinson's and those without, compared to traditional methods. Specifically, using the proposed algorithm's selected features, the SVM model achieved an accuracy of 93.2% compared to an 88.5% accuracy when using all MFCC features. Furthermore, the computation time was reduced by 15% due to the dimensionality reduction introduced by the proposed algorithm. In conclusion, this study opens up a promising new direction in the early detection and treatment of Parkinson's disease, demonstrating the value of looking to nature for solving complex problems.
Keywords: Optimization; Bio Inspired Computing; Parkinson's Disease Prediction

Yoav Ben-Shlomo, Sirwan Darweesh, Jorge Llibre-Guerra, Connie Marras, Marta San Luciano, Caroline Tanner,
The epidemiology of Parkinson's disease,
The Lancet,
Volume 403, Issue 10423,
2024,
Pages 283-292,
ISSN 0140-6736,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(23)01419-8.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673623014198)
Abstract: Summary
The epidemiology of Parkinson's disease shows marked variations in time, geography, ethnicity, age, and sex. Internationally, prevalence has increased over and above demographic changes. There are several potential reasons for this increase, including the decline in other competing causes of death. Whether incidence is increasing, especially in women or in many low-income and middle-income countries where there is a shortage of high-quality data, is less certain. Parkinson's disease is more common in older people and men, and a variety of environmental factors have been suggested to explain why, including exposure to neurotoxic agents. Within countries, there appear to be ethnic differences in disease risk, although these differences might reflect differential access to health care. The cause of Parkinson's disease is multifactorial, and involves genetic and environmental factors. Both risk factors (eg, pesticides) and protective factors (eg, physical activity and tendency to smoke) have been postulated to have a role in Parkinson's disease, although elucidating causality is complicated by the long prodromal period. Following the establishment of public health strategies to prevent cardiovascular diseases and some cancers, chronic neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and dementia are gaining a deserved higher priority. Multipronged prevention strategies are required that tackle population-based primary prevention, high-risk targeted secondary prevention, and Parkinson's disease-modifying therapies for tertiary prevention. Future international collaborations will be required to triangulate evidence from basic, applied, and epidemiological research, thereby enhancing the understanding and prevention of Parkinson's disease at a global level.

Jan Rusz, Paul Krack, Elina Tripoliti,
From prodromal stages to clinical trials: The promise of digital speech biomarkers in Parkinson's disease,
Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews,
Volume 167,
2024,
105922,
ISSN 0149-7634,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neubiorev.2024.105922.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0149763424003919)
Abstract: Speech impairment is a common and disabling symptom in Parkinson's disease (PD), affecting communication and quality of life. Advances in digital speech processing and artificial intelligence have revolutionized objective speech analysis. Given the complex nature of speech impairment, acoustic speech analysis offers unique biomarkers for neuroprotective treatments from the prodromal stages of PD. Digital speech biomarkers can monitor levodopa-induced motor complications, detect the effects of deep brain stimulation, and provide feedback for behavioral speech therapy. This review updates the mechanisms underlying speech impairment, the impact of speech phenotypes, and the effects of interventions on speech. We evaluate the strengths, potential weaknesses, and suitability of promising digital speech biomarkers in PD for capturing disease progression and treatment efficacy. Additionally, we explore the translational potential of PD speech biomarkers to other neuropsychiatric diseases, offering insights into motion, cognition, and emotion. Finally, we highlight knowledge gaps and suggest directions for future research to enhance the use of quantitative speech measures in disease-modifying clinical trials. The findings demonstrate that one year is sufficient to detect disease progression in early PD through speech biomarkers. Voice quality, pitch, loudness, and articulation measures appear to capture the efficacy of treatment interventions most effectively. Certain speech features, such as loudness and articulation rate, behave oppositely in different neurological diseases, offering valuable insights for differential diagnosis. In conclusion, this review highlights speech as a biomarker in tracking disease progression, especially in the prodromal stages of PD, and calls for further longitudinal studies to establish its efficacy across diverse populations.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Speech; Voice; Dysarthria; Acoustic; Machine learning; Neurological diseases

Patryk Pyka, Sabrina Garbo, Rossella Fioravanti, Claus Jacob, Marius Hittinger, Jadwiga Handzlik, Clemens Zwergel, Cecilia Battistelli,
Selenium-containing compounds: a new hope for innovative treatments in Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease,
Drug Discovery Today,
Volume 29, Issue 8,
2024,
104062,
ISSN 1359-6446,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drudis.2024.104062.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359644624001879)
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases are challenging to cure. To date, no cure has been found for Alzheimer’s disease or Parkinson’s disease, and current treatments are able only to slow the progression of the diseases and manage their symptoms. After an introduction to the complex biology of these diseases, we discuss the beneficial effect of selenium-containing agents, which show neuroprotective effects in vitro or in vivo. Indeed, selenium is an essential trace element that is being incorporated into innovative organoselenium compounds, which can improve outcomes in rodent or even primate models with neurological deficits. Herein, we critically discuss recent findings in the field of selenium-based applications in neurological disorders.
Keywords: selenium; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; neuroprotection; oxidative stress

Don Gueu Park, Woorim Kang, In-Ja Shin, Mauricio Chalita, Hyun-Seok Oh, Dong-Wook Hyun, Hyun Kim, Jongsik Chun, Young-Sil An, Eun Jeong Lee, Jung Han Yoon,
Difference in gut microbial dysbiotic patterns between body-first and brain-first Parkinson's disease,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 201,
2024,
106655,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2024.106655.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996124002559)
Abstract: Background
This study aims to identify distinct microbial and functional biomarkers characteristic of body-first or brain-first subtypes of Parkinson's disease (PD). This could illuminate the unique pathogenic mechanisms within these subtypes.
Methods
In this cross-sectional study, we classified 36 well-characterized PD patients into body-first, brain-first, or undetermined subtypes based on the presence of premotor REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) and cardiac meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) uptake. We then conducted an in-depth shotgun metagenomic analysis of the gut microbiome for each subtype and compared the results with those from age- and sex-matched healthy controls.
Results
Significant differences were found in the gut microbiome of body-first PD patients (n = 15) compared to both brain-first PD patients (n = 9) and healthy controls. The gut microbiome in body-first PD showed a distinct profile, characterized by an increased presence of Escherichia coli and Akkermansia muciniphila, and a decreased abundance of short-chain fatty acid-producing commensal bacteria. These shifts were accompanied by a higher abundance of microbial genes associated with curli protein biosynthesis and a lower abundance of genes involved in putrescine and spermidine biosynthesis. Furthermore, the combined use of premotor RBD and MIBG criteria was more strongly correlated with these microbiome differences than the use of each criterion independently.
Conclusions
Our findings highlight the significant role of dysbiotic and pathogenic gut microbial alterations in body-first PD, supporting the body-first versus brain-first hypothesis. These insights not only reinforce the gut microbiome's potential as a therapeutic target in PD but also suggest the possibility of developing subtype-specific treatment strategies.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Microbiome; Body-first vs. brain-first. MIBG; REM sleep behavior disorder

Yu-Chen Yan, Lu Su, Wan-Bing Zhao, Yun Fan, James B. Koprich, Bao-Guo Xiao, Bin Song, Jian Wang, Wen-Bo Yu,
Bidirectional interaction between IL and 17A/IL-17RA pathway dysregulation and α-synuclein in the pathogenesis of Parkinson’s disease,
Brain, Behavior, and Immunity,
Volume 123,
2025,
Pages 1114-1126,
ISSN 0889-1591,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbi.2024.10.025.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0889159124006664)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) pathogenesis is characterized by α-synuclein (α-syn) pathology, which is influenced by various factors such as neuroinflammation and senescence. Increasing evidence has suggested a pivotal role for Interleukin-17A(IL-17A) and Interleukin-17 Receptor A (IL-17RA) in PD, yet the trigger and impact of IL-17A/IL-17RA activation in PD remains elusive. This study observed an age-related increase in IL-17A and IL-17RA in the human central nervous system, accompanied by increased α-syn and senescence biomarkers. Interestingly, both levels of IL-17A and IL-17RA in PD patients were significantly elevated compared to age-matched controls, wherein the IL-17A was mainly present in neurons. This abnormal neuronal IL-17A activation in the PD brain was recapitulated in α-syn mouse models. Correspondingly, administration of recombinant IL-17A exacerbated pathological α-syn in both neuron and mouse models. Furthermore, IL-17A/IL-17RA pathway interventions via blocking antibody or shRNA-mediated knockdown can mitigate the effects of pathological α-syn. This study reveals an interplay between dysregulation of the IL-17A/IL-17RA pathway and α-syn, suggesting that regulating the IL-17A/IL-17RA pathway could modify PD progression by disrupting the detrimental cycle.
Keywords: IL-17A; IL-17RA; α-Synuclein; Parkinson’s disease; Senescence

Meilan Su, Song Wang, Oumei Cheng, Kai Xie, Juan Peng, Xinyi Du, Lei Huang, Tian Feng,
Constipation is associated with emotional and cognitive impairment in patients with Parkinson’s disease: A clinical and brain functional study,
Neuroscience,
Volume 559,
2024,
Pages 17-25,
ISSN 0306-4522,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.08.027.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306452224004135)
Abstract: Objective
Constipation frequently occurs in patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) and may be related to cognitive and emotional disorders. The aim of this study is to investigate the clinical and brain functional characteristics of patients with PD presenting with constipation.
Methods
The motor and non-motor symptoms of patients with PD were evaluated, and a resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI) study was conducted based on propensity score matching. Alterations in brain function were analyzed using regional homogeneity (ReHo) and functional connectivity (FC).
Results
Compared with patients without constipation (PD-NC group), patients with constipation (PD-C group) had more serious motor and non-motor symptoms (including cognitive and emotional disorders along with visual hallucinations). Further, emotional and cognitive disorders were correlated with the occurrence of constipation in patients with PD. Compared with the PD-NC group, the PD-C group showed a reduced ReHo of the right insula and bilateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), increased ReHo of the left postcentral gyrus, and enhanced FC between the right OFC and the left middle temporal gyrus (MTG) and middle occipital gyrus (MOG). Additionally, the activity of the OFC and insula was significantly correlated with the constipation, mood, and cognitive levels of patients with PD.
Conclusions
Constipation in patients with PD is closely related to emotional and cognitive impairments, abnormal activity and FC of brain regions such as the right insula and bilateral OFC may play an important role in this.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Constipation; Mood; Cognition; Functional magnetic resonance imaging

Augusto Ielo, Lilla Bonanno, Costanza Brunati, Antonio Cannuli, Gianpaolo Antonio Basile, Serena Dattola, Alba Migliorato, Fabio Trimarchi, Filippo Cascio, Demetrio Milardi, Antonio Cerasa, Angelo Quartarone, Alberto Cacciola,
Structural and functional connectomics of the olfactory system in Parkinson's disease: a systematic review,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 132,
2025,
107230,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107230.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024012422)
Abstract: Olfactory dysfunction, affecting 75–90 % of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, holds significant predictive value for PD development. Advanced imaging techniques, such as diffusion MRI (dMRI) and functional MRI (fMRI), offer insights into structural and functional changes within olfactory pathways. This review summarizes a decade of research on MRI-based connectivity of the olfactory system in PD, focusing on structural and functional alterations in olfactory brain areas and their links to early olfactory processing changes. Fifteen dMRI and eighteen fMRI studies met inclusion criteria and were carefully reviewed. Among the studies investigating diffusion metrics, the most consistent finding was the reduction of fractional anisotropy in the olfactory tract and anterior olfactory structures, though evidence correlating this result to olfactory dysfunction is limited and contrasting. dMRI support the hypothesis that olfactory function may be correlated to structural alterations at the network-level. In contrast, fMRI studies found more consistent evidence of dysconnectivity in both primary and secondary olfactory areas as directly correlated to olfactory processing and dysfunction. Results suggest a potential dissociation between structural alterations in olfactory brain regions and early functional impairment in olfactory processing, likely related to different patient subtypes. Heterogeneity in clinical and technical factors may limit the generalizability of the results, leaving room for further investigations. By providing a comprehensive perspective on the use of dMRI and fMRI to explore the olfactory connectome in PD, our review might facilitate future research towards earlier diagnosis and more targeted therapeutic and neurorehabilitation strategies.
Keywords: Diffusion MRI (dMRI); Functional MRI (fMRI); Olfactory dysfunction; Connectivity; Tractography

Xingxin Wang, Tiantian Dong, Xuhao Li, Wenyan Yu, Zhixia Jia, Yuanxiang Liu, Jiguo Yang,
Global biomarker trends in Parkinson's disease research: A bibliometric analysis,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 6,
2024,
e27437,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e27437.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024034686)
Abstract: As the second most common neurodegenerative disease globally, Parkinson's disease (PD) affects millions of people worldwide. In recent years, the scientific publications related to PD biomarker research have exploded, reflecting the growing interest in unraveling the complex pathophysiology of PD. In this study, we aim to use various bibliometric tools to identify key scientific concepts, detect emerging trends, and analyze the global trends and development of PD biomarker research.The research encompasses various stages of biomarker development, including exploration, identification, and multi-modal research. MOVEMENT DISORDERS emerged as the leading journal in terms of publications and citations. Key authors such as Mollenhauer and Salem were identified, while the University of Pennsylvania and USA stood out in collaboration and research output. NEUROSCIENCES emerged as the most important research direction. Key biomarker categories include α-synuclein-related markers, neurotransmitter-related markers, inflammation and immune system-related markers, oxidative stress and mitochondrial function-related markers, and brain imaging-related markers. Furthermore, future trends in PD biomarker research focus on exosomes and plasma biomarkers, miRNA, cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers, machine learning applications, and animal models of PD. These trends contribute to early diagnosis, disease progression monitoring, and understanding the pathological mechanisms of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Dementia; Biomarker research; WOS; Bibliometric

Helena R. Gonçalves, Luís Martins, Nuno Ferrete Ribeiro, Luís Abreu, Ana Margarida Rodrigues, Cristina P. Santos,
A Convolutional Neural Network based model for daily motor activities recognition: A contribution for Parkinson's Disease,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 151,
2025,
110706,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2025.110706.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197625007067)
Abstract: Daily motor activities are affected by motor disabilities caused by Parkinson's disease (PD). Monitoring motor disabilities frequently observed in PD is difficult for physicians, as they are limited to the information observed or self-reported during routine consultations, resulting in subjectivity and limited assessment. Thus, it is necessary to evaluate more frequently and objectively, ideally in a continuous manner including daily life tasks. While wearable sensory devices, such as inertial sensors, and their applications are steadily growing, the advances in artificial intelligence studies have revolutionized their ability to extract deeply hidden information for accurate detection and interpretation of motor activities. However, further studies are required, mainly focused on PD. This study aimed to implement a deep learning (DL) based model for recognizing daily motor activities based on inertial data to contribute to PD. The model relied on a convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture, trained and tested on a created custom dataset. We further benchmarked our model against other popular DL frameworks. The dataset included inertial data captured from 18 patients while performing trivial quotidian tasks, such as walking, turning, sitting, and lying. We hypothesized that a DL model based on a CNN architecture could be an appropriate solution for modeling daily motor non-steady and steady-state tasks from a single inertial sensor. We measured an F1 score of 0.906 and an accuracy of 91.1 % on final testing with our optimized CNN model, being the tasks of standing and walking the most accurately recognized by the model. Future challenges should cover exploring attention-based models and increasing the dataset.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Motor monitoring; Activities recognition; Deep learning; Convolutional neural network

Fatma M. Mahmoud, Rabab H. Sayed, Naglaa A. Ahmed, Nesrine EL- Sayed,
Neuroprotective effects of scoparone in a rotenone-induced Parkinson’s disease mouse model via PI3K/AKT pathway inhibition,
Journal of Advanced Research,
Volume 74, Supplement,
2025,
Pages S4-S5,
ISSN 2090-1232,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jare.2025.06.061.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2090123225004709)

Boyan Wang, Xuegang Hu, Rongjun Ge, Chenchu Xu, Jinglin Zhang, Zhifan Gao, Shu Zhao, Kemal Polat,
Prediction of Freezing of Gait in Parkinson’s disease based on multi-channel time-series neural network,
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine,
Volume 154,
2024,
102932,
ISSN 0933-3657,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artmed.2024.102932.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S093336572400174X)
Abstract: Freezing of Gait (FOG) is a noticeable symptom of Parkinson’s disease, like being stuck in place and increasing the risk of falls. The wearable multi-channel sensor system is an efficient method to predict and monitor the FOG, thus warning the wearer to avoid falls and improving the quality of life. However, the existing approaches for the prediction of FOG mainly focus on a single sensor system and cannot handle the interference between multi-channel wearable sensors. Hence, we propose a novel multi-channel time-series neural network (MCT-Net) approach to merge multi-channel gait features into a comprehensive prediction framework, alerting patients to FOG symptoms in advance. Owing to the causal distributed convolution, MCT-Net is a real-time method available to give optimal prediction earlier and implemented in remote devices. Moreover, intra-channel and inter-channel transformers of MCT-Net extract and integrate different sensor position features into a unified deep learning model. Compared with four other state-of-the-art FOG prediction baselines, the proposed MCT-Net obtains 96.21% in accuracy and 80.46% in F1-score on average 2 s before FOG occurrence, demonstrating the superiority of MCT-Net.
Keywords: Freezing of gait; Multi-channel time-series neural network; Wearable sensors; Transformer; Parkinson’s disease

Mario Madruga Escalona, Yolanda Campos-Roca, Carlos Javier Pérez Sánchez,
Enhancing noise robustness of automatic Parkinson’s disease detection in diadochokinesis tests using multicondition training,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 260,
2025,
125401,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2024.125401.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417424022681)
Abstract: Despite significant advances on automatic detection of Parkinson’s disease (PD) based on speech, several open challenges still need to be addressed before a validated computer-aided diagnosis system can be used practically. One of these challenges lies in considering the potential corruption of speech caused by environmental noises, which may be nonstationary and exhibit varied characteristics. Speech features automatically extracted from diadochokinetic (DDK) tests have shown utility in assessing articulatory aspects of speech impairment in PD. The authors propose an automatic PD detection system based on a multicondition training (MCT) framework. The approach considers various types of realistic acoustic noise in addition to DDK recordings and uses machine learning for feature selection and classification. For each experiment, the noise addition process did not artificially increase the dataset size, as each subject’s recordings were either affected by a single noise type or had no injected noise. To compare with this MCT-based approach, an alternative method is examined where training involves speech samples affected by uniform noise conditions. This method, referred to as single-condition training (SCT), involves training with features either from the original waveforms or from waveforms altered by noise addition, ensuring uniformity by using the same type of realistic noise across all the training samples. The benefit of the MCT approach is demonstrated by showing the results obtained in classification tests to discriminate patients affected by PD from healthy individuals. The experiments performed were based on an in-house voice recording database composed of 30 individuals diagnosed with PD and 30 healthy controls. The speech samples were recorded using a smartphone as a data collection device so that the samples were not affected by speech compression algorithms. Both approaches (SCT and MCT) were tested against each specific type of noise under consideration. The mean accuracy rates showed improvements of 1.68%, 5.18%, and 4.39% for/pa/,/ta/, and/ka/ syllables, respectively, when using MCT compared with SCT. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first strategy published in the literature to deal with the potential corruption of speech by environmental noise in automatic PD detection aid systems based on DDK tests.
Keywords: Machine learning; Mobile health; Multicondition training; Parkinson’s disease; Noise robustness; Speech processing

Cong Chen, Tong Wang, Tong-Yao Gao, Ya-Ling Chen, Yun-Bi Lu, Wei-Ping Zhang,
Ablation of NAMPT in dopaminergic neurons leads to neurodegeneration and induces Parkinson’s disease in mouse,
Brain Research Bulletin,
Volume 218,
2024,
111114,
ISSN 0361-9230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainresbull.2024.111114.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S036192302400248X)
Abstract: Nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) is the key enzyme in the salvaging synthesize pathway of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). The neuroprotective roles of NAMPT on neurodegeneration have been explored in aging brain and Alzheimer’s Disease. However, its roles in Parkinson’s Disease (PD) remain to be elucidated. We found that the dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra expressed higher levels of NAMPT than the other types of neurons. Using conditional knockout of the Nampt gene in dopaminergic neurons and utilizing a NAMPT inhibitor in the substantia nigra of mice, we found that the NAMPT deficiency triggered the time-dependent loss of dopaminergic neurons, the impairment of the dopamine nigrostriatal pathway, and the development of PD-like motor dysfunction. In the rotenone-induced PD mouse model, nicotinamide ribose (NR), a precursor of NAD, rescued the loss of dopaminergic neurons, the impairment of dopamine nigrostriatal pathway, and mitigated PD-like motor dysfunction. In SH-SY5Y cells, NAD suppression induced the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial impairment, and cell death, which was reversed by N-acetyl cysteine, an antioxidant and ROS scavenger. Rotenone decreased NAD level, induced the accumulation of ROS and the impairment of mitochondria, which was reversed by NR. In summary, our findings show that the ablation of NAMPT in dopaminergic neurons leads to neurodegeneration and contributes to the development of PD. The NAD precursors have the potential to protect the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, and offering a therapeutic approach for the treatment of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease (PD); Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD); Nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT); Oxidative stress; Mitochondria; Nicotinamide ribose (NR)

Hazem Al-Najjar, Nadia Al-Rousan, Dana Al-Najjar,
Hybrid grey wolf and whale optimization for enhanced Parkinson's prediction based on machine learning models using biomedical sound,
Informatics in Medicine Unlocked,
Volume 48,
2024,
101524,
ISSN 2352-9148,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.imu.2024.101524.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352914824000807)
Abstract: Background
Biomedical voice measurements have been used by many physicians and scientists to distinguish Parkinson's patients from ordinary people. Measurements of biomedical voices involve many variables calculated from signal analysis of the voice. These variables can be used to distinguish Parkinson's patients from non-Parkinson's patients. Unfortunately, using all computed variables may be ineffective and inaccurate due to the complexity of establishing a relationship between all the input variables and Parkinson's states.
Methods
This paper describes the development of a hybrid optimizer by combining two optimization algorithms: the Grey Wolf Optimizer and the Whale Optimizer. The hybrid optimizer enhances feature selection to provide a fast and robust Parkinson's prediction model. Additionally, this research incorporates five other feature selection algorithms for comparison purposes: Ranker, Greedy, BestFirst, Hybrid Grey Wolf Optimization, and Whale Optimization. The outputs from these algorithms are fed into six prediction models to determine the most accurate combination. These models include the neural network, Quest, Chi-squared Automatic Interaction Detection, support vector machine, CR-tree, and logistic regression models. Subsequently, the developed models are compared to identify the most accurate model based on various performance metrics.
Results
The combination of the hybrid grey wolf and whale models yielded the highest scores in most metrics, achieving a perfect recall and a high F1 score. All models generated similar output, with an accuracy greater than 0.89. Quest, CR-tree, and neural networks are the most reliable and accurate models.
Conclusions
Biomedical sound measurements can be used to develop an accurate and cost-effective Parkinson's prediction model.
Keywords: Feature selection; Biomedical voice measurements; Machine learning model; Parkinson's disease; Whale optimization; Grey wolf optimization; Prediction; Hybrid optimization algorithm

M. Etoom, M. Al-wardat, O. Elyan, T. Schirinzi, S. Natoli,
Pain in Parkinson’s disease: Prevalence, severity and related factors,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 134,
2025,
107513,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107513.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025002548)

Lei Guo, Haiming Hu, Nan Jiang, Huabing Yang, Xiongjie Sun, Hui Xia, Jun Ma, Hongtao Liu,
Electroacupuncture blocked motor dysfunction and gut barrier damage by modulating intestinal NLRP3 inflammasome in MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease mice,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 9,
2024,
e30819,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e30819.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024068506)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder commonly accompanied by gut dysfunction. EA has shown anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects. Here, we aim to explore whether EA can treat Parkinson's disease by restoring the intestinal barrier and modulating NLRP3 inflammasome. We applied 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to establish a PD mouse model and EA at the GV16, LR3, and ST36 for 12 consecutive days. The open-field test results indicated that EA alleviated depression and behavioral defects, upregulated the expressions of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and blocked the accumulation of α-synuclein (α-syn) in the midbrain. Moreover, EA blocked the damage to intestinal tissues of PD mice, indicative of suppressed NLRP3 inflammasome activation and increased gut barrier integrity. Notably, the antibiotic-treated mouse experiment validated that the gut microbiota was critical in alleviating PD dyskinesia and intestinal inflammation by EA. In conclusion, this study suggested that EA exhibited a protective effect against MPTP-induced PD by alleviating behavioral defects, reversing the block of motor dysfunction, and improving the gut barrier by modulating intestinal NLRP3 inflammasome. Above all, this study could provide novel insights into the pathogenesis and therapy of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Electroacupuncture; Motor dysfunction; NLRP3 inflammasome; Gut barrier

Mustafa Noaman Kadhim, Dhiah Al-Shammary, Fahim Sufi,
A novel voice classification based on Gower distance for Parkinson disease detection,
International Journal of Medical Informatics,
Volume 191,
2024,
105583,
ISSN 1386-5056,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2024.105583.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505624002466)
Abstract: Background
Traditional classifier for the classification of diseases, such as K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), Random Forest (RF), Logistic Regression (LR), and Support Vector Machine (SVM), often struggle with high-dimensional medical datasets.
Objective
This study presents a novel classifier to overcome the limitations of traditional classifiers in Parkinson’s disease (PD) detection based on Gower distance.
Methods
We present the Gower distance metric to handle diverse feature sets in voice recordings, which acts as a dissimilarity measure for all feature types, making the model adept at identifying subtle patterns indicative of PD. Additionally, the Cuckoo Search algorithm is employed for feature selection, reducing dimensionality by focusing on key features, thereby lessening the computational load associated with high-dimensional datasets.
Results
The proposed classifier based on Gower distance resulted in an accuracy rate of 98.3% with feature selection and achieved an accuracy of 94.92% without the feature selection method. It outperforms traditional classifiers and recent studies in PD detection from voice recordings.
Conclusions
This accuracy shows the capability of the approach in the correct classification of instances and points out the potential of the approach as a reliable diagnostic tool for the medical practitioner. The findings state that the proposed approach holds promise for improving the diagnosis and monitoring of PD, both within medical institutions and at homes for the elderly.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease detection; Gower distance; Cuckoo search; Machine learning

Xiang Li, Wenjun Wang, Shi Pan, Xueqin Cao, Elizabeth Rosalind Thomas, Mingyu Xie, Chunxiang Zhang, Jianming Wu,
Exploring heat shock proteins as therapeutic targets for Parkinson’s disease,
Biochemical Pharmacology,
Volume 230, Part 3,
2024,
116633,
ISSN 0006-2952,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bcp.2024.116633.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006295224006336)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is characterized by the accumulation of misfolded α-synuclein (α-syn). Promoting the degradation of misfolded proteins has been shown to be an effective approach to alleviate PD. This review highlights the roles of specific heat shock proteins (HSPs) in modulating α-syn aggregation and neuronal survival. HSP27 prevents glycosylation-induced α-syn aggregation, disrupts copper ion interactions, inhibits mitochondrial apoptosis, and prevents dopaminergic neuronal cell death. HSP70 alleviates dopaminergic neuronal damage by promoting mitophagy and preventing neuronal apoptosis. HSC70 plays a critical role in chaperone-mediated autophagy and facilitates lysosomal degradation. GRP78 mitigates abnormal protein aggregation. The HSP70-HSP40-HSP110 system is capable of degrading α-syn amyloid fibers. Inhibition of HSP90 expression protects neurons. Further research should prioritize developing regulators of HSPs as treatments for PD. While HSPs offer promise in PD management, their complex roles necessitate cautious therapeutic development to harness their potential. Understanding the specific roles of different HSPs will be essential to developing effective therapies for α-syn clearance.
Keywords: Parkinson’ disease; Mitophagy; HSPs; α-syn; Unfolded protein response

Kang Lin, Pei Li, Pei-zhu Zhang, Ping Jin, Xin-feng Ma, Guang-an Tong, Xiao Wen, Xue Bai, Gong-qiang Wang, Yong-zhu Han,
Negative emotion modulates postural tremor variability in Parkinson’s disease: A multimodal EEG and motion sensor study toward behavioral interventions,
IBRO Neuroscience Reports,
Volume 18,
2025,
Pages 663-671,
ISSN 2667-2421,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.04.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S266724212500051X)
Abstract: Background
Despite clinical observations of emotion-tremor interactions in Parkinson’s disease (PD), the neurophysiological mechanisms mediating this relationship remain poorly characterized.
Methods
This study employs a multimodal approach integrating 16-channel electroencephalography (EEG) and inertial motion sensors to investigate emotion-modulated postural tremor dynamics in 20 PD patients and 20 healthy controls (HCs) during standardized video-induced emotional states (positive/neutral/negative).
Results
Key findings demonstrate impaired negative emotional processing in PD, manifested as paradoxical increases in subjective valence (pleasure-displeasure ratings) coupled with reduced physiological arousal. Tremor variability predominantly correlated with negative emotional states, showing a negative association with valence scores and positive correlation with arousal levels. EEG analysis identified differential beta-band power modulation in prefrontal (Fp1/Fp2) and temporal (T3/T4) regions during negative emotion processing. These results suggest that emotion-driven tremor fluctuations in PD originate from dysfunctional integration of limbic and motor networks.
Conclusion
These findings establish emotion-modulated tremor as a distinct PD phenotype, informing the development of closed-loop biofeedback systems for personalized neuromodulation.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Postural tremor; Emotion regulation; Beta oscillations; Wearable sensors

Carlos Polvorinos-Fernández, Luis Sigcha, María Centeno-Cerrato, Guillermo de Arcas, Miriam Grande, Mayca Marín, Isabel Pareés, Juan Carlos Martínez-Castrillo, Ignacio Pavón,
Evaluation of Free-Living Motor Symptoms in Patients With Parkinson Disease Through Smartwatches: Protocol for Defining Digital Biomarkers,
JMIR Research Protocols,
Volume 14,
2025,
,
ISSN 1929-0748,
https://doi.org/10.2196/72820.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1929074825004536)
Abstract: Background
Monitoring motor symptoms in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) presents significant challenges due to the complex nature of symptom progression, variations in medication responses, and the fluctuations that can occur throughout the day. Traditional neurological visits provide only a limited perspective of a patient’s overall condition, with challenges in achieving accurate and objective assessments of symptoms. To bridge this gap, extended monitoring in nonclinical settings could play a critical role in personalizing treatments and improving their efficacy. Wearable devices have emerged as potential tools for assessing PD symptom severity; however, studies integrating both in-clinic and free-living conditions, as well as multiday monitoring, remain scarce. Defining digital biomarkers that provide valuable insights into motor symptoms could enable comprehensive monitoring and tracking of PD in various contexts, facilitating more precise medication adjustments and the implementation of advanced therapeutic strategies.
Objective
This study aims to collect a dataset to support the proposal and definition of digital biomarkers of PD motor symptoms using wearable devices. Data will be collected both in a supervised setting and continuously in a remote, free-living context during participants’ normal daily activities; the study will include patients with PD and healthy controls. The goal is to identify reliable digital biomarkers that can effectively distinguish patients with PD from healthy controls and classify disease severity in both supervised and unsupervised free-living environments.
Methods
This paper outlines a protocol for an observational case-control study aimed at assessing motor symptoms in patients with PD using a smartwatch. The smartwatch will record accelerometer, gyroscope, and physical activity data. Participants will be instructed to perform a series of exercises guided via a smartphone. Measurements will be collected in 2 settings: a supervised clinical environment, with motor symptoms assessments conducted at the beginning and end of the study, and in an unsupervised free-living context for 1 week. In both settings, participants will be required to wear the smartwatch while performing the same set of exercises. In their daily routine, participants will be required to wear the smartwatch continuously throughout the day, removing it only at night for charging.
Results
Participant recruitment and data collection started in December 2024 and will continue until spring 2025. The study aims to enroll 20 participants with PD and 20 healthy controls.
Conclusions
It is anticipated that the generation of a dataset of accelerometer and gyroscope signal data recorded from patients with PD at various stages of the disease, alongside data from a control group, will enable robust comparative and impactful analyses. In addition, the study seeks to develop analytical techniques capable of tracking PD symptoms in real-life scenarios, both in everyday settings and clinical environments.
Trial Registration
ClinicalTrials.gov NCT06817772; https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06817772
International Registered Report Identifier (IRRID)
DERR1-10.2196/72820
Keywords: movement analysis; wearable devices; home monitoring; health indicator; smart health care

Zhongwei Huang, Jianqiang Li, Jiatao Yang, Jun Wan, Jianxia Chen, Zhi Yang, Ming Shi, Ran Zhou, Haitao Gan,
Parkinson’s disease classification and prediction via adaptive sparse learning from multiple modalities,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 100, Part A,
2025,
107061,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2024.107061.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809424011194)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder where early clinical diagnosis is critical for patients. In this study, we introduce a new embedded adaptive sparse learning method that integrates multimodal data, labeling, and clinical score information for early PD diagnosis. Based on the manifold learning theory, the proposed method utilizes a low-dimensional manifold to represent the structure of high-dimensional data. We carry out similarity learning and feature selection from different modalities while using the l2,p specification for adaptive sparsity control. Also, we dynamically learn the similarity between features to find more effective information in features. an effective optimization iterative algorithm is proposed to solve this problem. To validate the effectiveness of the proposed method, we conducted extensive experiments on the Parkinson’s Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) database, including PD vs. normal controls (NC), scans without evidence of dopaminergic deficit (SWEDD) vs. NC, PD vs. SWEDD, and PD vs. SWEDD vs. NC. Using baseline data for experiments, our method achieved accuracies of 82.38%, 85.56%, 86.47%, and 65.54%, respectively. When using 12-month data, the accuracies were 77.43%, 95.26%, 95.35%, and 77.98%, respectively. Overall, our method outperformed the other methods. Additionally, the performance of the three deep models using the feature subsets selected by our method surpassed that achieved using the original data, further validating the effectiveness of our method.
Keywords: Feature detection; Multimodal sensors; Parkinson’s disease; Medical diagnosis

Hongyi Chen, Junyan Fu, Xiao Liu, Zhiji Zheng, Xiao Luo, Kun Zhou, Zhijian Xu, Daoying Geng,
A Parkinson’s disease-related nuclei segmentation network based on CNN-Transformer interleaved encoder with feature fusion,
Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics,
Volume 118,
2024,
102465,
ISSN 0895-6111,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compmedimag.2024.102465.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895611124001423)
Abstract: Automatic segmentation of Parkinson’s disease (PD) related deep gray matter (DGM) nuclei based on brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is significant in assisting the diagnosis of PD. However, due to the degenerative-induced changes in appearance, low tissue contrast, and tiny DGM nuclei size in elders’ brain MRI images, many existing segmentation models are limited in the application. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a PD-related DGM nuclei segmentation network to provide precise prior knowledge for aiding diagnosis PD. The encoder of network is designed as an alternating encoding structure where the convolutional neural network (CNN) captures spatial and depth texture features, while the Transformer complements global position information between DGM nuclei. Moreover, we propose a cascaded channel-spatial-wise block to fuse features extracted by the CNN and Transformer, thereby achieving more precise DGM nuclei segmentation. The decoder incorporates a symmetrical boundary attention module, leveraging the symmetrical structures of bilateral nuclei regions by constructing signed distance maps for symmetric differences, which optimizes segmentation boundaries. Furthermore, we employ a dynamic adaptive region of interests weighted Dice loss to enhance sensitivity towards smaller structures, thereby improving segmentation accuracy. In qualitative analysis, our method achieved optimal average values for PD-related DGM nuclei (DSC: 0.854, IOU: 0.750, HD95: 1.691 mm, ASD: 0.195 mm). Experiments conducted on multi-center clinical datasets and public datasets demonstrate the good generalizability of the proposed method. Furthermore, a volumetric analysis of segmentation results reveals significant differences between HCs and PDs. Our method holds promise for assisting clinicians in the rapid and accurate diagnosis of PD, offering a practical method for the imaging analysis of neurodegenerative diseases.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Deep gray matter nuclei; Segmentation; Transformer; Feature fusion

Mohammad Arshad Javed Shaikh, Gaurav Gupta, Pawan Bagiyal, Saurabh Gupta, Santosh Kumar Singh, Ramkumar Pillappan, Dinesh Kumar Chellappan, Parteek Prasher, Vikas Jakhmola, Thakur Gurjeet Singh, Harish Dureja, Sachin Kumar Singh, Kamal Dua,
Enhancing drug bioavailability for Parkinson's disease: The promise of chitosan delivery mechanisms,
Annales Pharmaceutiques Françaises,
Volume 83, Issue 2,
2025,
Pages 195-210,
ISSN 0003-4509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pharma.2024.07.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S000345092400107X)
Abstract: Summary
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a widely seen neurodegenerative condition recognized by misfolded α-synuclein (αSyn) protein, a prominent indicator for PD and other synucleinopathies. Motor symptoms like stiffness, akinesia, rest tremor, and postural instability coexist with nonmotor symptoms that differ from person to person in the development of PD. These symptoms arise from a progressive loss of synapses and neurons, leading to a widespread degenerative process in multiple organs. Implementing medical and surgical interventions, such as deep brain stimulation, has enhanced individuals’ overall well-being and long-term survival with PD. It should be mentioned that these treatments cannot stop the condition from getting worse. The complicated structure of the brain and the existence of a semi-permeable barrier, commonly known as the BBB, have traditionally made medication delivery for the treatment of PD a challenging endeavor. The drug's low lipophilic nature, enormous size, and peculiarity for various ATP-dependent transport mechanisms hinder its ability to enter brain cells. This article delves at the potential of drug delivery systems based on chitosan (CS) to treat PD.
Résumé
La maladie de Parkinson (MP) est une affection neurodégénérative largement répandue caractérisée par la présence de protéines α-synucléine (αSyn) mal repliées, un indicateur important pour la MP et d’autres synucléinopathies. Les symptômes moteurs tels que la rigidité, l’akinésie, le tremblement au repos et l’instabilité posturale coexistent avec des symptômes non moteurs qui varient d’une personne à l’autre dans le développement de la MP. Ces symptômes résultent d’une perte progressive des synapses et des neurones, conduisant à un processus dégénératif généralisé dans plusieurs organes. La mise en œuvre d’interventions médicales et chirurgicales telles que la stimulation cérébrale profonde a amélioré le bien-être général et la survie à long terme des personnes atteintes de MP. Il convient de mentionner que ces traitements ne peuvent pas arrêter la progression de la maladie. La structure complexe du cerveau et la présence d’une barrière semi-perméable connue sous le nom de BBB ont traditionnellement rendu la délivrance de médicaments pour le traitement de la MP un défi. La faible nature lipophile du médicament, sa taille énorme et sa spécificité pour divers mécanismes de transport dépendant de l’ATP entravent sa capacité à pénétrer dans les cellules cérébrales. Cet article examine le potentiel des systèmes de délivrance de médicaments à base de chitine (CS) pour traiter la MP.
Keywords: Parkinson disease; Chitosan; Drug delivery; Nanoparticle; Polymer; Maladie de Parkinson; Chitine; Délivrance de médicaments; Nanoparticules; Polymère

Zhaohui Xu, Qing Zhao,
Exploring the effect and mechanism of Shaoyao Gancao Decoction in the treatment of pain in Parkinson's disease using network pharmacology and molecular docking,
IBRO Neuroscience Reports,
Volume 18,
2025,
Pages 200-210,
ISSN 2667-2421,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.01.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667242125000132)
Abstract: This study explores the potential effects and mechanisms of SGD in treating pain in PD based on network pharmacology and molecular docking technology.The chemical components in the aqueous extract from SGD were identified using GC-MS analysis. A prediction network describing the relationship between SGD and pain in PD was established based on information collected from multiple databases. Using Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Geomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment of key target genes in the DAVID6.8 database to obtain treatment target genes. To further investigate the molecular interactions, AutoDock Vina were employed to perform molecular docking and visualize the resulting outcomes. There were 206 targets obtained from the 105 active ingredients in Paeoniae Radix Alba and Radix Rhizoma Glycyrrhizae, and 5110 disease targets related to pain in PD were identified. GO enrichment analysis indicates that its Biologica Process (BP) involve response to lipopolysaccharide, response to metal ion. Cellular Component (CC) analysis suggests its primary impact on various membrane structural components. Molecular Function (MF) enrichment results primarily include ubiquitin-like protein ligase binding. KEGG pathway enrichment mainly encompasses MAPK, AGE-RAGE, IL-17, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling pathways. According to the results of molecular docking, the binding activity between core components and targets was marvelous (affinity < −5.0 kcal/mol). SGD has more advantages in the regulation of various types of pain in PD through multiple targets, which is worthy of further study.
Keywords: Parkinson's Disease; Pain; Shaoyao Gancao Decoction; Network pharmacology; Molecular docking

Neda Anastassova, Magdalena Kondeva-Burdina, Nadya Hristova-Avakumova, Denitsa Stefanova, Miroslav Rangelov, Nadezhda Todorova, Denitsa Yancheva,
Exploring the Potential of Indole-3-acetic Acid Arylhydrazone Hybrids for Parkinson’s Disease Treatment: A Comprehensive Evaluation of Neuroprotective, MAOB Inhibitory, and Antioxidant Properties,
ACS Chemical Neuroscience,
Volume 16, Issue 6,
2025,
Pages 1161-1181,
ISSN 1948-7193,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00838.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S194871932500088X)
Abstract: In the current study, a small series of five indole-3-acetic acid-derived arylhydrazone hybrids were synthesized and subjected to comprehensive evaluation of their neuropharmacological and radical-scavenging properties. Minimal neurotoxic effects were observed across diverse subcellular fractions, with particular emphasis on the compound 3a bearing a 2,3-dihydroxy moiety, exhibiting superior neuroprotective effects against H2O2-induced oxidative stress by preserving the cell viability up to 68%. Noteworthy neuroprotection was observed in 6-OHDA-induced neurotoxicity using isolated rat brain synaptosomes, with compounds 3b and 3c displaying prominent effects. Compound 3a demonstrated robust neuroprotective and antioxidant effects in models of tert-butyl hydroperoxide-induced oxidative stress on isolated rat brain mitochondria and nonenzyme-induced lipid peroxidation using isolated rat brain microsomes (Fe/AA). All compounds exhibited MAOB inhibition within the range of 0.130–0.493 μM, with compounds 3d, 3e, and 3a showing notable selectivity against hMAOB. Molecular docking studies further validated ligand binding within MAOB active sites. The derivatives demonstrated scavenging activity and antioxidant effects against various ROS types, with compound 3a consistently exhibiting the most potent activity. Structural modifications exerted discernible effects on scavenging capabilities and antioxidant effects, underscoring their potential therapeutic implications in neuroprotection and oxidative stress mitigation.

Keywords: indole-3-acetic acid arylhydrazones; catechol; Parkinson’s disease; neuroprotection; antioxidant activity; MAOB inhibition

Zhihao Mao, Yuning Zhang, Yirong Liang, Chenglai Xia, Lan Tang,
Liver X receptor α contribution to neuroinflammation and glial cells activation induced by MPTP: Implications for Parkinson’s disease,
Neuroscience,
Volume 560,
2024,
Pages 109-119,
ISSN 0306-4522,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.09.033.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306452224004858)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder whose etiology remains unknown. The immune system has been implicated in hallmarks of PD including aggregation of α-synuclein and death of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. As a core regulator of immune response and inflammation, liver X receptors (LXRs) have been shown to have protective effects in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced mouse model of PD. With two isoforms of LXRs (LXRα and LXRβ) expressed in the brain, their roles and distributions in this tissue remain largely unexplored. Here, we used MPTP to mimic symptoms and biomedical changes seen in PD in LXRα-/- and wild-type mice to investigate the role of LXRα in the etiology and progression of PD. We found that MPTP is unable to induce motor deficits, anxiety-like behavior in LXRα-/- mice, which has been seen in WT mice. Gene ontology analysis of RNA sequencing revealed that knockout of LXRα led to enrichment of the process, including immune response and inflammation in the midbrain. In addition, MPTP did not lead to dopaminergic neuron death in the striatum and substantia nigra in LXRα-/- mice, the basal GFAP protein level, and pro-inflammatory cytokines were elevated in LXRα-/- mice. Lastly, the microglia activation and astrogliosis caused by MPTP intoxication we found in WT mice were abolished in LXRα-/- mice. To sum up, we conclude that LXRα is a critical regulator in MPTP intoxication and may play a unique role in astrogliosis seen in the neuroinflammation of PD.
Keywords: Liver X receptor α; Neuroinflammation; MPTP intoxication; Parkinson’s disease; Astrogliosis

Xiaojin Liu, Yuze Zhang, Yihe Weng, Miao Zhong, Lijuan Wang, Zhenni Gao, Huiqing Hu, Yuhu Zhang, Biao Huang, Ruiwang Huang,
Levodopa therapy affects brain functional network dynamics in Parkinson's disease,
Progress in Neuro-Psychopharmacology and Biological Psychiatry,
Volume 136,
2025,
111169,
ISSN 0278-5846,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pnpbp.2024.111169.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278584624002379)
Abstract: Levodopa (L-dopa) therapy is the most effective pharmacological treatment for motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, its effect on brain functional network dynamics is still unclear. Here, we recruited 26 PD patients and 24 healthy controls, and acquired their resting-state functional MRI data before (PD-OFF) and after (PD-ON) receiving 400 mg L-dopa. Using the independent component analysis and the sliding-window approach, we estimated the dynamic functional connectivity (dFC) and examined the effect of L-dopa on the temporal properties of dFC states, the variability of dFC and functional network topological organization. We found that PD-ON showed decreased mean dwell time in sparsely connected State 2 than PD-OFF, the transformation of the dFC state is more frequent and the variability of dFC was decreased within the auditory network and sensorimotor network in PD-ON. Our findings provide new insights to understand the dynamic neural activity induced by L-dopa therapy in PD patients.
Keywords: L-dopa therapy; Dynamic functional connectivity; Functional network topology; Resting-state fMRI

Franco Moscovicz, Alejandro Idraste, Jose Luis Etcheverry, Jeronimo Auzmendi, Fabián Piedimonte,
Low-frequency quadruple target transcranial magnetic stimulation for severe levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease. A single case report,
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation,
Volume 2,
2025,
100081,
ISSN 3050-5291,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.transm.2024.100081.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S3050529124000813)
Abstract: Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) are a common and debilitating complication in patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease (PD), significantly impairing quality of life. While single-target transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has shown limited efficacy, multitarget approaches tailored to patient-specific symptomatology remain unexplored. Objective: This case report describes the development and application of a novel low-frequency multitarget TMS protocol designed to address severe, refractory LID in a PD patient. Methods: A 77-year-old male with advanced PD (Modified Hoehn and Yahr Stage 4) and debilitating LID underwent a personalized TMS protocol. The treatment involved 20 sessions over two weeks, targeting six cortical regions through four stimulation sites, with sequential low-frequency stimulation. Symptomatology was assessed using the Dyskinesia Diary, the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS), and subjective improvement scales. Results: Dyskinesias decreased significantly, from an average of 8–10 h per day to 2 h daily during treatment, and were further reduced to 0–1 h daily following a levodopa dose adjustment. Improvements persisted for up to six weeks post-treatment. The AIMS score improved from 23 (baseline) to 2 (post-treatment). Non-motor symptoms, including mood and speech articulation, also showed marked improvement. The patient reported mild, transient post-treatment rigidity and bradykinesia, which resolved with levodopa adjustments. Conclusion: This case demonstrates the potential efficacy of a multitarget low-frequency TMS protocol in managing severe LID, highlighting its role as a non-invasive alternative for patients unsuitable for deep brain stimulation (DBS). However, the findings are limited by the single-patient design, the absence of a control group, and the relatively short follow-up period. These limitations underscore the need for larger studies with sham-controlled designs and extended follow-ups to validate this approach and explore its long-term outcomes.
Keywords: Movement disorder; Parkinson' s disease; Dyskinesias; Tms; Transcranial magnetic stimulation

Pei Yin, Junjie Song, Yassine Bouteraa, Leren Qian, Diego Martín, Mohammad Khishe,
A cognitive few-shot learning for medical diagnosis: A case study on cleft lip and palate and Parkinson’s disease,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 262,
2025,
125713,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2024.125713.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417424025806)
Abstract: This paper presents a novel cognitive few-shot learning (CFSL) for the diagnosis of cleft lip and palate and Parkinson’s diseases. The proposed method utilizes computational analysis of paralinguistic features to expedite the diagnostic process. Unlike other methods that rely on complex and fragmented representations, CFSL trains itself to recognize patterns that are easily interpretable by humans. Rather than learning a single, unstructured metric space, CFSL combines the outputs of individual landmark (LM) learners by mapping LMs into semi-formation spaces. In order to assess the effectiveness of CFSL, we conducted a comparative analysis with seven distinct FSL-based models, including momentum contrastive learning for FSL (MCFSL), self-updating FSL (SUFSL), mutual info multi-attention FSL (MAMIFSL), dual class representation FSL (DCRFSL), Improved FSL (IFSL), meta-knowledge for FSL (MKFSL), and prototypical networks (ProtoNet), using three popular datasets, namely GPRS, CIEMPIESS, and PC-GITA. The findings indicate that CFSL demonstrated superior performance compared to the highest-performing baseline frameworks for the 5-shot (5-sh) and 1-shot (1-sh), having an average enhancement of 4.39% and 4.49%, respectively. CFSL demonstrated better performance than the ProtoNet baseline in both 1-sh and 5-sh across all datasets, with an improvement of 12.966% and 11.033%, respectively. In addition, we performed ablation tests to assess the effects of variables such as the density of LMs, the structure of the network, the distance measure used, and the positioning of LMs. The CFSL approach, if adopted in hospitals, has the potential to enhance the precision and efficiency of diagnosis for cleft lip and palate as well as Parkinson’s disease.
Keywords: Cognitive few-shot learning approach; Neurodegenerative disorder; Few-shot learning; Medical diagnosis

Xiaojing Yang, Xuan Zhang, Yufang Ma, Sheng Li, Qingshan Wang, Jau-Shyong Hong, Guangli Yu, Bing Qi, Jie Wang, Chengkang Liu, Qingsen Shang, Xuefei Wu, Jie Zhao,
Fucoidan ameliorates rotenone-induced Parkinsonism in mice by regulating the microbiota-gut-brain axis,
International Journal of Biological Macromolecules,
Volume 283, Part 2,
2024,
137373,
ISSN 0141-8130,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.137373.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141813024081820)
Abstract: Microbiota-gut-brain axis, the bidirectional relationship between the gut microbiota and the brain, has been increasingly appreciated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Fucoidan, a sulphate-rich polysaccharide, has been shown to be neuroprotective by reducing oxidative stress in PD models. However, the role of microbiota-gut-brain axis in the neuroprotective activity of fucoidan has not been revealed. In this study, the therapeutic effects of fucoidan and involvement of microbiota-gut-brain axis in rotenone (ROT)-induced PD were investigated. The results showed that fucoidan gavage attenuated neuroinflammation, dopamine neuronal damage and motor dysfunction in ROT-induced PD mice. In addition, fucoidan treatment ameliorated gut dysfunction, intestinal inflammation and disruption of the intestinal barrier in PD mice. Fucoidan also affected the composition of gut microbiota in PD mice, indicated particularly by decreased abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila and Lactobacillus johnsonii and increased abundance of Lactobacillus murinus. Mechanistic studies showed that fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from the fucoidan-treated mice and probiotic Lactobacillus murinus supplement are as potent as fucoidan treatment in attenuating peripheral and central inflammation and ameliorating dopamine neuronal damage, which might be attributed to the downregulation of LPS/TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway. Our study suggests that fucoidan might be potential candidates for the treatment of PD.
Keywords: Fucoidan; Parkinson's disease; Microbiota-gut-brain axis; Neuroinflammation; FMT; Lactobacillus murinus

René Márquez-Franco, Luis Concha, María Guadalupe García-Gomar, José Damián Carrillo-Ruíz, Ricardo Loução, Michael T. Barbe, Gregor A. Brandt, Veerle Visser-Vandewalle, Pablo Andrade, Francisco Velasco-Campos,
Validation of Tenths Stereotactic Coordinates Method Using Probabilistic Tractography of the Ansa Lenticularis in Parkinson's Disease Patients,
World Neurosurgery,
Volume 191,
2024,
Pages e235-e245,
ISSN 1878-8750,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wneu.2024.08.099.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1878875024014682)
Abstract: Objective
To evaluate the accuracy of stereotactic coordinates to target the ansa lenticularis (AL) using 2 surgical planning methods, the conventional millimeter method (MM) and the normalized Tenths method (TM), assessed through individualized probabilistic tractography.
Methods
Stereotactic targeting of the AL was assessed in 2 groups: 16 patients with Parkinson's disease and 16 healthy controls from Group 1, and 39 Parkinson's disease patients from Group 2. Structural and diffusion magnetic resonance imaging probabilistic tractography identified the AL based on the Schaltenbrand-Wahren Atlas. The MM defined stereotactic coordinates in millimeters, while the TM refined the planning by dividing the intercommissural line (AC-PC) distance into 10 equal parts, normalizing the "X,” "Y,” and "Z" coordinates for each patient. We subsequently compared the percentage of structural connectivity (%conn) of the AL with predefined regions of interest (ROIs), including the frontopontine-corticothalamic tracts, globus pallidus internus-ventral oral anterior, and ventral oral posterior, and quantified the streamlines in 142 brain hemispheres using the MM and TM coordinates.
Results
Despite anatomical variations in intercommissural (AC-PC) line lengths between both groups (22.5 ± 2.09 mm and 24.4 ± 2.56 mm, respectively; P = 0.002), as well as differences in magnetic resonance imaging acquisition parameters, we found that the TM significantly enhanced streamline identification and %conn compared to the MM. These enhancements were noted across ROIs: frontopontine-corticothalamic and globus pallidus internus-ventral oral anterior in both hemispheres, and globus pallidus internus-ventral oral posterior in the left (P < 0.001) and right hemispheres (P = 0.03).
Conclusions
TM surpasses MM in identifying the structural connectivity between the AL and predefined ROIs, underscoring the advantages of coordinate normalization. However, variations in AC-PC line lengths and Euclidean distances between methods could lead to inaccuracies in the coordinate settings, potentially affecting the precision of structural connectivity and the efficacy of therapeutic outcomes.
Keywords: Ansa lenticularis; Deep brain stimulation; Neuroimaging; Parkinson's disease; Probabilistic tractography; Stereotactic coordinates

Yong-Ren Chen, Chin-Chean Wong, Yi-No Chen, Bing-Heng Yang, Po-Hui Lee, Chia-Yang Shiau, Kuo-Chuan Wang, Chung-Hsing Li,
Factors derived from human exfoliated deciduous teeth stem cells reverse neurological deficits in a zebrafish model of Parkinson's disease,
Journal of Dental Sciences,
Volume 19, Issue 4,
2024,
Pages 2035-2044,
ISSN 1991-7902,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jds.2024.06.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1991790224001843)
Abstract: Background/purpose
Mesenchymal stem cells exhibit therapeutic efficacy for brain injury. This study examined the effect of mesenchymal stem cells derived from human exfoliated deciduous teeth (SHED) on alleviating symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD).
Materials and methods
SHED were isolated to examine the biosafety and bioavailability of stem cells derived from human exfoliated deciduous teeth-derived conditioned medium (SHED-CM) for the alleviation of PD symptoms in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced PD zebrafish model.
Results
SHED-CM administration did not induce neurological, skin or muscle toxicity in control zebrafish at any dose, and estrogen equivalent testing showed no chronic toxicants. Induction of PD with 6-OHDA suppressed zebra SHED-CM was administered to zebrafish treated with 6-OHDA to induce PD symptoms. Similar to nomifensine, a drug with proven anti-PD potential, SHED-CM repaired the motor deficiencies in the zebrafish PD model.
Conclusion
Our results indicate the biosafety of SHED-CM and its therapeutic potential in treating PD in a zebrafish model.
Keywords: SHED-CM; Parkinson's disease; 6-OHDA zebrafish model; Tangential flow filtration

Yueh-Sheng Chen, Chen-Yuan Kuo, Cheng-Hsien Lu, Yuan-Wei Wang, Kun-Hsien Chou, Wei-Che Lin,
Multiscale brain age prediction reveals region-specific accelerated brain aging in Parkinson's disease,
Neurobiology of Aging,
Volume 140,
2024,
Pages 122-129,
ISSN 0197-4580,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2024.05.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0197458024000939)
Abstract: Brain biological age, which measures the aging process in the brain using neuroimaging data, has been used to assess advanced brain aging in neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson disease (PD). However, assuming that whole brain degeneration is uniform may not be sufficient for assessing the complex neurodegenerative processes in PD. In this study we constructed a multiscale brain age prediction models based on structural MRI of 1240 healthy participants. To assess the brain aging patterns using the brain age prediction model, 93 PD patients and 91 healthy controls matching for sex and age were included. We found increased global and regional brain age in PD patients. The advanced aging regions were predominantly noted in the frontal and temporal cortices, limbic system, basal ganglia, thalamus, and cerebellum. Furthermore, region-level rather than global brain age in PD patients was associated with disease severity. Our multiscale brain age prediction model could aid in the development of objective image-based biomarkers to detect advanced brain aging in neurodegenerative diseases.
Keywords: Brain aging; Machine learning; Parkinson disease; Magnetic resonance imaging

Yu Zhang, Xiao-bo Zhu, Yang Zhao, Gui-yun Cui, Wen-tao Li, Can-xing Yuan, Jian-ping Huang, Ying Wan, Na Wu, Lu Song, Jia-hao Zhao, Yan Liang, Chuan-ying Xu, Mei-juan Liu, Chen Gao, Xin-xin Chen, Zhen-guo Liu,
Efficacy and safety of Tianqi Pingchan Granule, a compound Chinese herbal medicine, for levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson’s disease: A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial,
Journal of Integrative Medicine,
Volume 22, Issue 5,
2024,
Pages 545-551,
ISSN 2095-4964,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joim.2024.07.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095496424003558)
Abstract: Background
Patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) undergoing long-term levodopa therapy are prone to develop levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID). Amantadine is the main drug recommended for the treatment of LID by current guidelines, but it is far from meeting clinical needs. Tianqi Pingchan Granule (TPG), a compound Chinese herbal medicine, has been developed to relieve symptom of LID.
Objective
This randomized controlled trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of the combination of TPG and amantadine for LID.
Design, setting, participants and interventions
This is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial, conducted from January 2020 to August 2021 at 6 sites in Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai, China. One hundred PD patients with ≥ 0.5 h of LID were randomly assigned to either the TPG plus amantadine group (TPG group) or the placebo plus amantadine group (placebo group), and treated for a period of 12 weeks. To ensure unbiased results, all study participants, investigators and sponsors were unaware of group allocations. Additionally, the data analysts remained blinded until the analysis was finalized.
Main outcome measures
The primary outcome was assessed using the Unified Dyskinesia Rating Scale (UDysRS) (Range 0–104). The key secondary end point was improvement of motor and non-motor symptoms. Safety analyses included all enrolled patients.
Results
One hundred patients were enrolled and randomized into the two treatment groups. The changes in UDysRS at week 12 were –11.02 for the TPG group and –4.19 for the placebo group (treatment difference –6.83 [–10.53 to –3.12]; P = 0.0004). Adverse events were reported for 2 of 50 patients (4.0%) in each of the groups.
Conclusion
This study indicated that a 12-week treatment of amantadine plus TPG effectively reduced UDysRS scores and was well tolerated, demonstrating the efficacy and safety of TPG for the treatment of LID in PD. Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04173832.
Please cite this article as
Zhang Y, Zhu XB, Zhao Y, Cui GY, Li WT, Yuan CX, Huang JP, Wan Y, Wu N, Song L, Zhao JH, Liang Y, Xu CY, Liu MJ, Gao C, Chen XX, Liu ZG. Efficacy and safety of Tianqi Pingchan Granule, a compound Chinese herbal medicine, for levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson’s disease: A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial. J Integr Med. 2024; 22(5): 545–551.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Tianqi Pingchan Granule; Levodopa-induced dyskinesia

Sanghee Moon, Caio V.M. Sarmento, Irina V. Smirnova, Yvonne Colgrove, Sue-Min Lai, Kelly E. Lyons, Wen Liu,
A pilot randomized clinical trial examining the effects of Qigong on inflammatory status and sleep quality in people with Parkinson's disease,
Journal of Bodywork and Movement Therapies,
Volume 40,
2024,
Pages 1002-1007,
ISSN 1360-8592,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbmt.2024.07.025.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1360859224003620)
Abstract: Background
Neuroinflammation contributes to degeneration of neurons in people with Parkinson's disease (PD). The concentrations of inflammatory cytokines, IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α, are often increased in people with PD and are associated with various non-motor symptoms. Qigong exercise is a mind-body practice which has been used as a rehabilitation intervention for people with PD. A previous study showed a strong association between sleep quality and inflammatory status. This study investigated the effect of Qigong on inflammatory status in people with PD and explored potential relationships between inflammatory status and sleep quality in this population.
Methods
The study was a randomized controlled trial. A total of 17 participants completed the 12-week intervention (Qigong (n = 8), sham Qigong (n = 9)). Questionnaires were utilized to assess non-motor symptoms, including sleep quality. Inflammatory cytokines were measured by a high sensitivity antibody-based multiplex assay.
Results
After the 12-week intervention, a decreasing trend in the concentrations of IL-1β and IL-6 was found in the Qigong group. Moderate to strong correlations were found between changes in IL-1β concentrations and sleep quality.
Conclusion
Inflammation is an important aspect of PD. This study explored the inflammatory status after a mind-body exercise. Further studies need to extend our findings to confirm the effect of Qigong in people with PD.
Keywords: Mind–body therapies; Qigong; Parkinson's disease; Inflammation; Sleep

Yalan Liu, Rui Wang, Fengjiao Sun, Nan Wang, Mengdi Wang, Jinfeng Cai, Bin Zhao, Qingqing Zhang, Ruli Ge, Hongcai Wang,
Stereotactic infusion of rotenone into the SN induced a late-stage model of Parkinson's disease,
Experimental Neurology,
Volume 393,
2025,
115382,
ISSN 0014-4886,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115382.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014488625002468)
Abstract: The establishment of an in vivo model for Parkinson's disease (PD) that accurately mimics late-stage clinical features is crucial for elucidating disease pathogenesis and developing novel therapeutic strategies. To establish this model, rotenone (ROT) was stereotactically infused into the substantia nigra (SN). Motor behavior in PD mice was assessed using the pole test and rotarod test. Apomorphine (APO)-induced rotation and dystonia were also evaluated. Alterations in anxiety, depression, and cognitive function were examined using the open field test, sucrose preference test, Y-maze test, and Morris water maze test, respectively. Gastrointestinal (GI) motility was determined by examining the timing of pink stool passage. Changes in gut microbiota composition were analyzed via 16S rRNA sequencing. The expression and localization of nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-leucine-rich repeat-pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3), caspase-1, and α-synuclein (α-syn) within astrocytes were determined using immunofluorescence. Peripheral organ toxicity induced by ROT was investigated using hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining. Experimental results demonstrated that the number of APO-induced rotations in the ROT group exceeded 210 rpm at 4 weeks and decreased significantly by 36 weeks, reflecting progressive disease characteristics. Specifically, the incidence of APO-induced dystonia was significantly higher in the ROT group at 36 weeks compared to 4 weeks (P < 0.05). Compared to the vehicle group, ROT-treated mice exhibited prolonged pole test descent time and reduced rotarod latency. The open field test revealed decreased center duration and crossings. Morris water maze showed fewer platform crossings and reduced target quadrant time. However, no statistically significant differences were observed between groups in the sucrose preference test at either 4 or 36 weeks. By 36 weeks, ROT-treated mice demonstrated a significantly lower spontaneous alternation rate compared to vehicle controls. ROT infusion also reduced overall gut microbiota abundance and altered microbial composition. Specifically, the ROT group showed decreased abundance of Allobaculum, Atopobium, Sneathia, Rikenella, Aestuariispira, Bacillus, Barnesiella, Escherichia/Shigella, Klebsiella, Eisenbergiella, and Parasutterella. Immunostaining analysis revealed that compared with the vehicle group, NLRP3, cleaved caspase-1, and α-syn expression was increased in astrocytes in the ROT group. The ROT-based model reproduced the clinical features of the early and late stages of PD, particularly dystonia and inflammasome activation, thus providing a reliable framework for studying late-stage PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Rotenone; Stereotactic injection; α-Synuclein; Inflammasome

Dara Lyn LoBuono, Kyla S. Shea, Megan Reed, Alison Tovar, Skye N. Leedahl, Furong Xu, Leslie Mahler, Ingrid E. Lofgren,
The Facilitators and Barriers to Digital Health for Managing Nutrition in People With Parkinson's Disease and Their Caregivers: A Formative, Qualitative Study,
Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior,
Volume 55, Issue 8,
2023,
Pages 553-563,
ISSN 1499-4046,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jneb.2023.05.252.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1499404623003731)
Abstract: Objective
Identify techniques to assist in designing digital health platforms for nutrition services for people with Parkinson's disease and caregivers to improve their quality of life.
Design
Semistructured, dyadic interviews with 20 dyads (20 people with Parkinson's disease and 20 caregivers).
Setting
Home visits were conducted in the northeast US.
Participants
People with Parkinson's disease and their caregivers were recruited via email, flyers, news articles and announcements at support groups.
Phenomenon of Interest
Identification of facilitators and barriers to using digital health platforms to inform future digital nutrition services.
Analysis
Interviews were recorded, transcribed and double-coded using a framework analysis method.
Results
Reported digital health platforms utilization facilitators were: knowledge acquisition, convenience, intention to use, socializing, enjoyment, and forced adoption. Barriers included: negative feelings toward technology, lack of access or knowledge, disinterest, product design, frustration and functional reliability, and applying health information.
Conclusions and Implications
Although dyads often lack knowledge on both how to use technology and nutrition, they are willing to use digital health platforms to increase their nutrition knowledge if platforms are convenient. Based on the identified facilitators and barriers, the added benefits of access and training nutrition digital health platforms must be clearly communicated to end-users to improve their quality of life.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; digital health; caregivers; nutrition education; mixed methods

Turker Tuncer, Irem Tasci, Burak Tasci, Rena Hajiyeva, Ilknur Tuncer, Sengul Dogan,
TPat: Transition pattern feature extraction based Parkinson’s disorder detection using FNIRS signals,
Applied Acoustics,
Volume 228,
2025,
110307,
ISSN 0003-682X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apacoust.2024.110307.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0003682X24004584)
Abstract: Background and Objective
Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is one of the most commonly observed neurodegenerative disorders worldwide. Many researchers have utilized machine learning (ML) models to detect PD and understand its underlying causes automatically. In this research, our primary objective is to automatically detect PD and extract meaningful results using the proposed ML model.
Materials and Methods
In this study, an FNIRS dataset collected from PD patients and control participants under three conditions—(i) rest, (ii) walking, and (iii) finger tapping—was utilized. A new explainable feature engineering (XFE) model was proposed to detect PD and automatically extract meaningful information under these conditions. The XFE model consists of four main phases: (i) feature extraction using the proposed channel transformation and transition pattern (TPat), (ii) feature selection employing cumulative weighted neighborhood component analysis (CWNCA), (iii) classification using the k-nearest neighbors (kNN) classifier, and (iv) channel network extraction to obtain explainable results.
Results
The suggested TPat-based XFE model was applied to the FNIRS dataset. This dataset included three distinct cases. Our model achieved over 94% classification accuracy using leave-one-subject-out cross-validation (LOSO CV) and 100% classification accuracy using 10-fold cross-validation. Additionally, channel transitions for each case were identified and discussed.
Conclusions
Based on the results and findings, the proposed model demonstrated high accuracy in FNIRS signal classification and provided explainable results. In this regard, the presented TPat-based XFE model contributed significantly to both ML and neuroscience.
Keywords: TPat; Channel Transformer; XFE; Connectome; PD detection; Graph; CWNCA

Francis Fezeu, Omar F. Jbara, Ahda Jbarah, Anis Choucha, Lucio De Maria, Elena Ciaglia, Matteo De Simone, Samuel Samnick,
PET imaging for a very early detection of rapid eye movement sleep behaviour disorder and Parkinson's disease – A model-based cost-effectiveness analysis,
Clinical Neurology and Neurosurgery,
Volume 243,
2024,
108404,
ISSN 0303-8467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clineuro.2024.108404.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303846724002919)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative condition after Alzheimer's disease and it represents one of the fastest emerging neurological diseases worldwide. PD is usually diagnosed after the third decade of life with symptoms like tremors at rest and muscle stiffness. Rapid Eye Movement sleep behavioral disorder (RBD) is another disorder that is caused by a loss of typical muscle relaxation during sleep with a lot of motor activity. Usually, RBD is strongly associated with PD. Recent studies have demonstrated that PD reduces the life expectancy of patients to 10 and 20 years after being diagnosed. In addition, delayed diagnosis and treatment of these neurological disorders have significant socio-economic impacts on patients, their partners and on the general public. Often, it is not clear about PD associated financial burdens both in low and high-income countries. On the other hand, PD triggers neurological variations that affect differences in the dopamine transporter (DAT) and in glucose metabolism. Therefore, positron emission tomography (PET) using specific DAT radiotracers and fluorine-18 labeled desoxyglucose (FDG) has being considered a key imaging technique that could be applied clinically for the very early diagnosis of RBD and in PD. However, a few myths about PET is that it is very expensive. Here, we looked at the cost of treatment of PD and RBD in relation to early PET imaging. Our finding suggests that PET imaging might also be a cost sparing diagnostic option in the management of patients with PD and RBD, not only for first world countries as it is the case now but also for the third world countries. Therefore, PET is a cost-effective imaging technique for very early diagnostic of RBD and PD.
Keywords: PD; PET; Low income countries

M. Al-Wardat, M. Etoom,
The Interrelationship Between Pain, Mental Health, and Physical Activity in Parkinson's Disease: A Comparative Study with Healthy Controls,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 134,
2025,
107586,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107586.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S135380202500327X)

Huong Thi-Mai Nguyen, Der-Yen Lee, Ching-Liang Hsieh,
Auricular acupuncture plays a neuroprotective role in 6-hydroxydopamine-induced Parkinson's disease in rats,
Journal of Traditional and Complementary Medicine,
Volume 15, Issue 2,
2025,
Pages 128-139,
ISSN 2225-4110,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtcme.2024.05.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2225411024000646)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second-most common neurodegenerative disease. Currently, PD treatment is symptomatic and involves the use of dopamine-based therapies. This study investigated auricular acupuncture on motor and cognitive abilities in rats with 6-OHDA-induced PD.
Methods
A PD rat model was established by bilaterally injecting 6-OHDA into the lateral dorsal striatum. Then, 2- or 15-Hz auricular electroacupuncture (EA) was applied to the auricular CO15 and CO12 points bilaterally for 20 min three times a week for four consecutive weeks.
Results
Both the latency to fall and rest time of the open field test in the EA15 group were greater than in the 6-OHDA group (p < 0.001 and p < 0.05). The time spent on the two-object recognition task was greater in the EA15 group and EA2 group than in the 6-OHDA group (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05). More tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons and fibers were noted in the dorsolateral striatum and substantia nigra (SN) (all p < 0.05). TH expression in the SN was greater in the EA15 group than that in the 6-OHDA group (p < 0.05), while α-synuclein expression in the SN was stronger in the 6-OHDA group than in the EA15 group (p < 0.05). The l-DOPA level in the striatum was higher in the EA15 group than in the 6-OHDA group (p < 0.05).
Conclusion
According to the results, rats with 6-OHDA-induced PD may benefit from auricular EA in terms of motor and cognitive behavior as well as neuroprotection.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Auricular acupuncture; 6-Hydroxydopamine; Tyrosine hydroxylase; α-synuclein

Yujin Choi, Yoon-Jung Shin, Eugene Huh, Hanbyeol Lee, Siyeon Park, Jin Hee Kim, Seungmin Lee, Young-Seo Park, Myoung Gyu Park, Dong-Hyun Kim, Myung Sook Oh,
Weissella cibaria SGW054 alleviates neurodegenerative progression in Proteus mirabilis- and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced Parkinson’s disease mice by regulating gut microbiota dysbiosis,
Brain, Behavior, and Immunity,
Volume 130,
2025,
106093,
ISSN 0889-1591,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbi.2025.106093.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0889159125003289)
Abstract: Emerging evidence suggests that gut microbiota dysbiosis contributes to the initial stages of neuroinflammation and dopaminergic neurodegeneration in Parkinson’s disease (PD). Probiotics are receiving attention as a treatment for PD because they restore gut microbiota balance and brain homeostasis. In this study, we demonstrated that Weissella cibaria SGW054 (SGW054), a probiotic strain, exhibited antibacterial activity against Proteus mirabilis (PM), which induces PD pathology. We evaluated the therapeutic effects of SGW054 on PD pathology in PM-induced PD model mice. Subsequently, we assessed the effects of SGW054 in mice exposed to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a toxin commonly used to induce PD, and explored its influence on gut microbiota composition. SGW054 improved motor dysfunction and neurodegeneration in PM-treated PD model mice. Additionally, SGW054 reduced microgliosis, colonic inflammatory cytokine release, gut barrier disruption, and the translocation of α-synuclein aggregates from the gut to the brain by controlling fecal PM levels. In an MPTP-induced PD mouse model, SGW054 mitigated glial hyperactivation and lowered the release of proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-α, in both the brain and colon, thereby relieving dopaminergic neuronal damage and behavioral complications. Fecal microbiota analysis demonstrated that SGW054 administration alleviated MPTP-induced microbiota dysbiosis, decreasing PM and Lachnospiraceae abundance while increasing probiotic bacteria levels (Bacteroidaceae, Bacteroides, and Faecalibacterium), which strongly correlated with the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects of SGW054. Collectively, our findings indicate that SGW054 may serve as a novel therapeutic supplement for PD by protecting against dopaminergic neuronal loss, restoring inflammatory homeostasis, and correcting gut microbiota dysbiosis in both gut-initiated and brain-initiated PD subtypes.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Weissella cibaria SGW054; Proteus mirabilis; 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrathydropyridine; Gut microbiota dysbiosis; Probiotics

Emad Albadawi, Ahmed El-Tokhy, Muayad Albadrani, Mohammed Adel, Randa El-Gamal, Wael Zaarina, Mosaab Salah El-din El-Agawy, Hassan Reda Hassan Elsayed,
The role of stinging nettle (Urtica dioica L.) in the management of rotenone-induced Parkinson's disease in rats,
Tissue and Cell,
Volume 87,
2024,
102328,
ISSN 0040-8166,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tice.2024.102328.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0040816624000296)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative conditions. Alpha-synuclein deposition, Lewy bodies (LBs) formation, disruption of the autophagic machinery, apoptosis of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation are all pathologic hallmarks of PD. The leaves of the stinging Nettle (Urtica dioica L.) have a long history as an herbal cure with antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, immunomodulatory, and neuroprotective properties. The current study aims for the first time to investigate the role of Nettle supplementation on Rotenone-induced PD. Rats were divided into five groups; a Saline control, Nettle control (100 mg/kg/day), Rotenone control (2 mg/kg/day), Rotenone + Nettle (50 mg /kg/day), and Rotenone + Nettle (100 mg/kg). After four weeks, the rats were examined for behavioral tests. The midbrains were investigated for histopathological alteration and immunohistochemical reaction for Tyrosine hydroxylase in the dopaminergic neurons, α-synuclein for Lewy bodies, caspase 3 for apoptotic neurons, LC3 and P62 for autophagic activity. Midbrain homogenates were examined for oxidative stress markers. mRNA expression of TNFα and Il6; inflammatory markers, Bcl-2, BAX and Caspase 3; apoptosis markers, were detected in midbrains. The results showed that Nettle caused recovery of midbrain dopaminergic neurons, by inhibiting apoptosis, inflammation, and oxidative stress and by restoring the autophagic machinery with clearance of α-synuclein deposits. We can conclude that Nettle is a potentially effective adjuvant in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Keywords: Parkinson`s disease; Alpha-synuclein; Autophagy; Stinging Nettle; Urtica dioica L.

Abhijit Chatterjee, Jogeswar Mohapatra, Manoranjan Sharma, Abhishek Jha, Randeep Patro, Debajeet Das, Hiren Patel, Harilal Patel, Jaimin Chaudhari, Nilesh Borda, Kasinath Viswanathan, Bhavesh Sharma, Harsh Bhavsar, Ashvin Patel, Ramchandra Ranvir, Rajesh Sundar, Sameer Agarwal, Mukul Jain,
A novel selective NLRP3 inhibitor shows disease-modifying potential in animal models of Parkinson’s disease,
Brain Research,
Volume 1842,
2024,
149129,
ISSN 0006-8993,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149129.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899324003834)
Abstract: Pathological activation of the Nod-like receptor family pyrin domain containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome signaling underlies many autoimmune and neuroinflammatory conditions. Here we report that, a rationally designed, novel, orally active, selective NLRP3 inflammasome inhibitor, Usnoflast (ZYIL1), showed potent inhibition of ATP, Nigericin and monosodium urate-mediated interleukin (IL)-1β release in THP-1 cells and human PBMC. In isolated microglia cells, the IC50 of ZYIL1 mediated inhibition of IL-1β was 43 nM. ZYIL1 displayed good pharmacokinetic profile in mice, rats and primates after oral administration and the concentrations found in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were markedly higher than the IC50 values. In an in vivo model of neuroinflammation, ZYIL1 demonstrated robust suppression of NLRP3 inflammasome activation and IL-1β upon oral administration. This translated into efficacy in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and 6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced Parkinson’s disease (PD) models in mice. In MPTP and/or 6-OHDA models, treatment with ZYIL1 ameliorated motor deficits, degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and abnormal accumulation of α-synuclein. There were positive changes in the genes related to walking, locomotor activity, neurogenesis, neuroblast proliferation and neuronal differentiation in the PD brain indicating improvement in neural health which translated into improved mobility. These findings clearly indicate that selective NLRP3 inhibitor ZYIL1, ameliorates neuroinflammation and appears to have the potential for disease modification and progression associated with PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Neuroinflammation; α-synuclein; NLRP3; Usnoflast; ZYIL1; Brain microarray

Vinayak Majhi, Sudip Paul, Goutam Saha, Ajaya Jang Kunwar, Manob Jyoti Saikia,
Importance of health history analysis in Parkinson's disease,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 15,
2024,
e34858,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e34858.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024108894)
Abstract: The objective of this research article is to investigate the impact of various health history factors on the risk of developing Parkinson's disease (PD). From the medical history we can identify PD Symptoms and this also help to detect the progression of PD symptoms. By conducting statistical analyses, the study seeks to identify independent risk and protective factors for Parkinson's disease (PD), considering variations in impact across genders and BMI categories.
Introduction
In the diagnosis of PD the analysis of previous health history is very rare in practice while the main diagnosis have been done through the different motor and non-motor symptoms taking in consideration besides the cardinal symptoms of PD for identification and determination the stages of PD. Here we have analyzed the impact of 56 different diseases, symptoms, and surgeries which a subject may have experienced in their life before PD, considered as a health history.
Methods
The behavioral impact for each types of health history have been analyzed statistically with 31,265 subjects including PD, and Control. In this analysis we have calculated the variation of impact for both the Male, and Female, as well as subjects BMI.
Results
98.12 % PD patients, where 97.63 % Male PD, and 98.71 % Female PD were found with at least one health history record. Coronary heart disease odds ratio (OR) 2.15 (1.85–2.51), Colon Cancer OR 2.11 (1.45–3.05), Cranial brain surgery OR 6.21 (5.11–7.56) have the higher risks to PD. Having the history of Asthma OR 0.66 (0.6–0.72), Anemia OR 0.56 (0.51–0.63), Cirrhosis in Liver OR 0.7 (0.57–0.86), Cosmetic surgery OR 0.7 (0.64–0.77), and Gastritis OR 0.78 (0.71–0.87) have been found to be protective to PD. The risk of developing PD varies between male, and female including subjects BMI for each individual health history types. The diseases which reduce the oxygen saturation in blood like, anemia, asthma, and thalassemia act as protective to PD.
Conclusions
In this study we have analyzed fifty six diseases which include surgeries as a health history of PD patients. Study suggests that a thorough health history could greatly aid in understanding the onset and progression of Parkinson's disease (PD).
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Health history; Surgical history; Clinical history

Chiara Pavan, Jennifer Jin, Sharon Jong, Gordon Qian, Dario Strbenac, Ryan L. Davis, Glenda M. Halliday, Deniz Kirik, Clare L. Parish, Lachlan H. Thompson, Carolyn M. Sue, Dmitry A. Ovchinnikov,
PARKIN protein-deficient iPSC line (FINi006-A) from an early-onset Parkinson’s disease female patient,
Stem Cell Research,
Volume 87,
2025,
103795,
ISSN 1873-5061,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scr.2025.103795.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187350612500145X)
Abstract: Compound heterozygosity for strong hypomorphic mutations in the PRKN gene is a common cause of autosomal familial Parkinson’s disease (PD). We generated an iPSC cell line from the fibroblasts of a PARKIN protein-deficient early-onset PD female patient, carrying genomic deletions of exon 2 and exons 5–7. This line displays characteristic human iPSC morphology and expression of pluripotency-associated genes, and the ability to differentiate into derivatives of three embryonic germ layers, and has a normal karyotype without any SNP array-detectable copy number variations. We anticipate the value of this PARKIN-deficient iPSC line and its derivatives in illuminating the intracellular role of this protein, contributing to the development of PD.

Ondrej Klempir, Adela Skryjova, Ales Tichopad, Radim Krupicka,
Ranking pre-trained speech embeddings in Parkinson's disease detection: Does Wav2Vec 2.0 outperform its 1.0 version across speech modes and languages?,
Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal,
Volume 27,
2025,
Pages 2584-2601,
ISSN 2001-0370,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csbj.2025.06.022.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2001037025002387)
Abstract: Speech and language technologies are effective tools for identifying the distinct speech changes associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), enabling earlier and more accurate diagnosis. Models leveraging recent advancements in self-supervised speech pretraining, such as Wav2Vec, have demonstrated superior performance over traditional feature extraction methods. While Wav2Vec 2.0 has been successfully utilized for PD detection, a rigorous quantitative comparison with Wav2Vec 1.0 is needed to comprehensively evaluate its advantages, limitations, and applicability across different speech modes in PD. This study presents a systematic comparison of Wav2Vec 1.0 and Wav2Vec 2.0 embeddings across three multilingual datasets using various classification approaches to classify normal (healthy controls; HC) and PD-affected speech. Additionally, both Wav2Vec 1.0 and 2.0 were benchmarked against traditional baseline features across diverse linguistic contexts, including spontaneous speech, non-spontaneous speech, and isolated vowels. A multicriteria TOPSIS approach was employed to rank feature extraction methods, revealing that Wav2Vec 2.0 excelled across speech modes, with its first transformer layer demonstrating the best performance for classifying read text and monologue, and its feature extractor performing best in vowel-based classification. In contrast, Wav2Vec 1.0, while generally outperformed by Wav2Vec 2.0, still provided a more efficient alternative with competitive performance. Finally, we combined selected layers from both architectures and have demonstrated improved diagnostic accuracy in vowel-based classification. This comparative analysis underscores the strengths of both Wav2Vec architectures and informs their optimal use in PD detection.
Keywords: Wav2vec 1.0; Wav2vec 2.0; Parkinson's disease; Speech modes; Classification

Xuejia Liu, Zhisheng Han, Yuming Huang, Mingzhi Li, Jialu Tian, Shan Zhao, Yonghai Li, Juntang Lin, Han Li,
HIF1α/SLC7A11 signaling attenuates 6-hydroxydopamine-induced ferroptosis in animal and cell models of Parkinson’s disease,
Journal of Neurorestoratology,
Volume 13, Issue 1,
2025,
100171,
ISSN 2324-2426,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnrt.2024.100171.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2324242624000780)
Abstract: Background
The pathogenesis of Parkinson’s disease (PD) is associated with ferroptosis. The role of HIF1α is involved in several diseases, but its specific function in PD remains uncertain.
Methods
In this study, we generated animal and cellular models of PD using the neurotoxin 6-OHDA. The occurrence of ferroptosis was determined by measuring levels of ferroptosis-related proteins, Fe2+ amount and transmission electron microscopy analysis in the PD models, and was further confirmed by using a ferroptosis inhibitor. HIF1α overexpressing and HIF1α knockdown SH-SY5Y cells were constructed by lentivirus transfection. Then, the levels of lipid peroxide, ROS, SLC7A11, and GPX4 were detected to elucidate the relationship between HIF1α and ferroptosis. Luciferase assay was used to analyze the regulation between HIF1α and SLC7A11.
Results
We observed a significant downregulation of HIF1α in both animal and cellular PD models. Overexpression of HIF1α mitigated 6-OHDA-induced ferroptosis in SH-SY5Y cells, while, conversely, downregulation of HIF1α promoted ferroptosis in SH-SY5Y cells. BioEdit Sequence Alignment Editor software identified a hypoxia response element (HRE) within the promoter sequence of SLC7A11. The dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that the co-expression of HIF1α and the SLC7A11 promoter significantly augmented reporter activity in SH-SY5Y cells. Moreover, introduction of a mutation into the HRE of the SLC7A11 promoter abolished the induction of SLC7A11 by HIF1α overexpression, resulted in a reduction in promoter activity compared with wild-type cells.
Conclusions
The collective findings of this study indicate that HIF1α can inhibit ferroptosis by positively regulating SLC7A11. This investigation has shed light on the crucial involvement of the HIF1α/SLC7A11 signaling axis in ferroptosis in PD models, thereby presenting patients with PD a promising therapeutic target.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Ferroptosis; HIF1α; SLC7A11; SH-SY5Y

Maria Luisa Bringas-Vega, Ivon Pedroso Ibáñez, Lilia Morales Chacon, Peng Ren,
EEG mediates motor improvement in Parkinson's using neural EPO,
International Journal of Psychophysiology,
Volume 213, Supplement,
2025,
113062,
ISSN 0167-8760,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2025.113062.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167876025005586)

Camille Sena-dos-Santos, Dafne Dalledone Moura, Matheus Caetano Epifane-de-Assunção, Ândrea Ribeiro-dos-Santos, Bruno Lopes Santos-Lobato,
Mitochondrial DNA variants, haplogroups and risk of Parkinson's disease: A systematic review and meta-analysis,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 125,
2024,
107044,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107044.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024010563)
Abstract: Background
Growing evidence has shown that mitochondrial dysfunction is part of the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the role of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variants on PD onset is unclear.
Objectives
The present study aims to evaluate the effect of mtDNA variants and haplogroups on risk of developing PD.
Methods
Systematic review and meta-analysis of studies investigating associations between PD and mtDNA variants and haplogroups.
Results
A total of 33 studies were eligible from 957 screened studies. Among 13,640 people with PD and 22,588 control individuals, the association with PD was consistently explored in 13 mtDNA variants in 10 genes and 19 macrohaplogroups. Four mtDNA variants were associated with PD: m.4336C (odds ratio [OR] = 2.99; 95 % confidence interval [CI] = 1.79–5.02), m.7028T (OR = 0.80; 95 % CI = 0.70–0.91), m.10398G (OR = 0.92; 95 % CI = 0.85–0.98), and m.13368A (OR = 0.74; 95 % CI = 0.56–0.98). Four mtDNA macrohaplogroups were associated with PD: R (OR = 2.25; 95 % CI = 1.92–2.65), F (OR = 1.18; 95 % CI = 1.01–1.38), H (OR = 1.12; 95 % CI = 1.06–1.18), and B (OR = 0.77; 95 % CI = 0.65–0.92).
Conclusions
Despite most studies may be underpowered by the underrepresentation of people without dominant European- and Asian-ancestry, low use of next-generation sequencing for genotyping and small sample sizes, the identification of mtDNA variants and macrohaplogroups associated with PD strengthens the link between the disease and mitochondrial dysfunction and mtDNA genomic instability.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; mitochondrial genome; Macrohaplogroups; mitochondrial dysfunction; mitochondrial DNA genomic instability

Yanyi Lu, Yuan Zhang, Lin Zeng, Bowen Yan, Xinpeng Li, Bangfu Zhou, Zhiqiang Xu, Qinghua He,
Volatile organic compounds profile of sebum from patients with Parkinson’s disease by gas chromatography-ion mobility spectrometry,
Microchemical Journal,
Volume 208,
2025,
112381,
ISSN 0026-265X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.microc.2024.112381.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0026265X24024949)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease with no definitive preclinical diagnostic test currently. Metabolism of PD patients, and consequently volatile organic compounds (VOCs) of sebum, have been shown to be altered. To explore the possibility of rapid non-invasive diagnosis of PD, we used gas chromatography-ion mobility spectrometry (GC-IMS) to detect sebum of PD patients and matched controls. Unused gauzes were also examined as blank control to verify the effect of confounding factors. A total of 216 subjects (112 PD patients and 104 controls) were included in the study. Partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA), random forest (RF) and support vector machine (SVM) were used for biomarker identification and discernibility analysis between PD and control groups (PDN). Based on average importance ranking and P values, a cluster of biomarkers was identified. After eliminating the impact of confounding factors such as environment and blank control, the AUC and predictive accuracy of the best model for differentiate PD patients from controls can reach 0.908 and 84.4%. The results demonstrate the potential of GC-IMS for rapid non-invasive diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease.
Keywords: Volatile organic compound (VOCs); Parkinson’s disease (PD); Gas chromatography-ion mobility spectrometry (GC-IMS); Sebum

P. Kolmykov, T.G. Azarnir, H. Zhou, S. Liu, P.M. Djuric, P. Bhavnani, S. Jain, M. Schedel, J. Plotkin, L.M. Muratori,
Error-based biofeedback for gait training in Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 134,
2025,
107590,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107590.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025003311)

Tailiang Zhao, Bingbing Wang, Wei Liang, Sen Cheng, Bin Wang, Ming Cui, Jixin Shou,
Accuracy of 18F-FDG PET Imaging in Differentiating Parkinson's Disease from Atypical Parkinsonian Syndromes: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis,
Academic Radiology,
Volume 31, Issue 11,
2024,
Pages 4575-4594,
ISSN 1076-6332,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acra.2024.08.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1076633224005798)
Abstract: Rationale and Objective
To quantitatively assess the accuracy of 18F-FDG PET in differentiating Parkinson's Disease (PD) from Atypical Parkinsonian Syndromes (APSs).
Methods
PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science databases were searched to identify studies published from the inception of the databases up to June 2024 that used 18F-FDG PET imaging for the differential diagnosis of PD and APSs. The risk of bias in the included studies was assessed using the QUADAS-2 or QUADAS-AI tool. Bivariate random-effects models were used to calculate the pooled sensitivity, specificity, and the area under the curves (AUC) of summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC).
Results
24 studies met the inclusion criteria, involving a total of 1508 PD patients and 1370 APSs patients. 12 studies relied on visual interpretation by radiologists, of which the pooled sensitivity, specificity, and SROC-AUC for direct visual interpretation in diagnosing PD were 96% (95%CI: 91%, 98%), 90% (95%CI: 83%, 95%), and 0.98 (95%CI: 0.96, 0.99), respectively; the pooled sensitivity, specificity, and SROC-AUC for visual interpretation supported by univariate algorithms in diagnosing PD were 93% (95%CI: 90%, 95%), 90% (95%CI: 85%, 94%), and 0.96 (95%CI: 0.94, 0.97), respectively. 12 studies relied on artificial intelligence (AI) to analyze 18F-FDG PET imaging data. The pooled sensitivity, specificity, and SROC-AUC of machine learning (ML) for diagnosing PD were 87% (95%CI: 82%, 91%), 91% (95%CI: 86%, 94%), and 0.95 (95%CI: 0.93, 0.96), respectively. The pooled sensitivity, specificity, and SROC-AUC of deep learning (DL) for diagnosing PD were 97% (95%CI: 95%, 98%), 95% (95%CI: 89%, 98%), and 0.98 (95%CI: 0.96, 0.99), respectively.
Conclusion
18F-FDG PET has a high accuracy in differentiating PD from APS, among which AI-assisted automatic classification performs well, with a diagnostic accuracy comparable to that of radiologists, and is expected to become an important auxiliary means of clinical diagnosis in the future.
Keywords: 18F-FDG PET; Artificial intelligence; Parkinson's disease; Atypical Parkinsonian Syndromes; Differential diagnosis

Qi Huang, Yingqian Zhao, Yuan Wang, Haifa Qiao, Ziwen Xu, Jing Meng, Qiaozhen Wu, Feng Zhou, Qiang Wang,
Identification and validation of senescence-related genes in Parkinson's disease,
Human Gene,
Volume 39,
2024,
201258,
ISSN 2773-0441,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.humgen.2024.201258.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2773044124000020)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder that is clinically identified by motor deficits. Its pathogenesis remains unclear and current treatments cannot reverse disease progression. Mounting evidence suggests that cellular senescence plays a crucial part in the development of Parkinson's disease. The analysis of genes related to aging in Parkinson's samples using bioinformatics has not been conducted so far. This study identified differentially expressed senescence genes using bioinformatics approaches and found genes RASL11B and PRRG1 to be highly correlated with Parkinson's, suggesting their potential as diagnostic and therapeutic targets. The miR-20 family of miRNAs may participate in Parkinson's pathogenesis by regulating these genes. Examining senescence genes within a senescence network framework, this study pioneers the investigation of their involvement in Parkinson's disease. It establishes the theoretical groundwork and identifies potential targets for the development of innovative diagnostic and therapeutic approaches focused on senescence. The present research reveals the important function of aging processes in the development of Parkinson's disease, enabling the advancement of novel diagnostic and therapeutic approaches for Parkinson's that focus on mechanisms related to aging.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Senescence-related gene; Machine learning; Bioinformatics

Neha Srivastava, Nishant Kumar Rana, Gyaneshwer Chaubey, Bhupendra Kumar, Abhishek Pathak, Vijaya Nath Mishra,
Identification of significant differentially expressed miRNA and their targets common in idiopathic Parkinson's diseaseand Parkinson plus syndrome,
Human Gene,
Volume 39,
2024,
201253,
ISSN 2773-0441,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.humgen.2023.201253.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2773044123001122)
Abstract: Idiopathic Parkinson's disease is the most prevalent type of Parkinsonism. Its pathogenesis involves oxidative stress, glutamate excitotoxicity, protein aggregation, and neurodegeneration. Parkinson's plus syndrome presents additional progressing symptoms and shows temporary or no evident responses to dopaminergic therapy, whereas idiopathic Parkinson's responds effectively. Currently, there are no widely accepted biomarkers for both types of Parkinsonism. This study aims to identify differentially expressed (DE) miRNAs that target genes associated with neurodegeneration in idiopathic Parkinson's disease and Parkinson's plus syndrome by using micro RNA expression profiling and bioinformatics tools. Combined study results through miRNA expression analysis and network analysis revealed five significant miRNAs (hsa-miR-34, hsa-miR-29, hsa-miR-128, hsa-miR-3175, and hsa-miR-6809) that were found to be common in both conditions. Their selected target genes (SNCA, PAK1, and PRKN) play crucial roles in the Parkinson's disease pathway and neurodegeneration. Thus, this research sheds light on potential therapeutic targets and a common pathway between idiopathic Parkinson's disease and Parkinson's plus syndrome.
Keywords: Microarray analysis; Differential expressed miRNA; Idiopathic Parkinson's disease; Parkinson's plus; Bioinformatics techniques

Wei Huang, Yingqi Xiao, Li Zhang, Hu Liu,
Association between a body shape index and Parkinson's disease: A large cross-sectional study from NHANES,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 4,
2024,
e26557,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e26557.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S240584402402588X)
Abstract: Objective
To further evaluate the connection between obesity and Parkinson's disease, we utilized A body shape index which normalizes waist circumference for Body mass index. Derived from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey.
Methods
Based on National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data from 2005 to 2018, this study included 31,933 adult participants in total. First, all the participants were divided into the Parkinson's disease group and non-Parkinson's disease group, respectively. Next, according to their quartiles of A body shape index levels, they were further classified into Q1 group (0.058–0.077), Q2 group (0.078–0.081), Q3 group (0.082–0.084), and Q4 group (0.085–0.117). A body shape index was the primary exposure, while Parkinson's disease was the primary outcome. A body shape index is defined by waist circumference divided by Body mass index2/3 × height1/2, and the expected value of waist circumference based on height and weight derived empirically from National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Consequently, A body shape index and Parkinson's disease were analyzed through multifactor logistic regression.
Results
According to the unadjusted multivariate logistic analysis, the Q4 group had a greater likelihood of acquiring Parkinson's disease than the Q1 group [OR = 4.519, 95% CI: 3.094–6.600; P < 0.001]. After adjusting the demographic variables such as age, sex, and race, Q4 group was at a higher risk of Parkinson's disease acquisition than Q1 [OR (95% CI): 2.677 (1.774–4.038); P < 0.001]. Compared with Q1 group, the male participants were in a greater chance of getting Parkinson's disease than female participants in Q4 group, as shown by subgroup analysis by gender [male vs. female: OR = 6.563 (3.289–13.098) vs. OR = 3.827 (2.398–6.108); Interaction P-value<0.001].
Conclusions
There is a non-linear positive correlation between the adult A body shape index and the risk of Parkinson's disease. Adults are at a greater risk of getting Parkinson's disease as A body shape index rises, and the link is particularly strong among men aged 20 to 59.
Keywords: A body shape index; Parkinson's disease; Cross-sectional study; National health and nutrition examination survey

Damijan Knez, Fen Wang, Wen-Xiang Duan, Martina Hrast Rambaher, Stanislav Gobec, Xiao-Yu Cheng, Xiao-Bo Wang, Cheng-Jie Mao, Chun-Feng Liu, Rok Frlan,
Development of novel aza-stilbenes as a new class of selective MAO-B inhibitors for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease,
Bioorganic Chemistry,
Volume 153,
2024,
107877,
ISSN 0045-2068,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bioorg.2024.107877.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S004520682400782X)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a progressive loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Inhibitors of monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) have shown promise in alleviating motor symptoms and reducing oxidative stress associated with PD. In this study, we report the novel use of an azastilbene-based compound library for screening human (h)MAO-B, followed by optimization of initial hits to obtain compounds with low nanomolar inhibitory potencies (compound 9, IC50 = 42 nM) against hMAO-B. To ensure specificity and minimize false positives due to non-specific hydrophobic interactions, we performed comprehensive selectivity profiling against hMAO-A, butyrylcholinesterase (hBChE) and acetylcholinesterase (hAChE) — enzymes with hydrophobic active sites that are structurally distinct from hMAO-B. Docking analysis with Glide provided valuable insights into the binding interactions between the inhibitors and hMAO-B and also explained the selectivity against hMAO-A. In the cell-based model of Parkinson’s disease, one of the compounds significantly reduced rotenone-induced accumulation of reactive oxygen species. In addition, these compounds showed a protective effect against acute 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced motor dysfunction in PD model mice and reduced MPTP-induced loss of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra. These results make azastilbene-based compounds a promising new class of hMAO-B inhibitors with potential therapeutic applications in Parkinson’s disease and related neurodegenerative disorders.
Keywords: Neurodegenerative diseases; Parkinson’s disease; Monoamine oxidase B; Inhibitors; Azastilbene; Library

Jessica E. Bath, Doris D. Wang,
Unraveling the threads of stability: A review of the neurophysiology of postural control in Parkinson's disease,
Neurotherapeutics,
Volume 21, Issue 3,
2024,
e00354,
ISSN 1878-7479,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00354.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1878747924000400)
Abstract: Postural instability is a detrimental and often treatment-refractory symptom of Parkinson's disease. While many existing studies quantify the biomechanical deficits among various postural domains (static, anticipatory, and reactive) in this population, less is known regarding the neural network dysfunctions underlying these phenomena. This review will summarize current studies on the cortical and subcortical neural activities during postural responses in healthy subjects and those with Parkinson's disease. We will also review the effects of current therapies, including neuromodulation and feedback-based wearable devices, on postural instability symptoms. With recent advances in implantable devices that allow chronic, ambulatory neural data collection from patients with Parkinson's disease, combined with sensors that can quantify biomechanical measurements of postural responses, future work using these devices will enable better understanding of the neural mechanisms of postural control. Bridging this knowledge gap will be the critical first step towards developing novel neuromodulatory interventions to enhance the treatment of postural instability in Parkinson's disease.
Keywords: Neurophysiology; Parkinson's disease; Posture; Balance; DBS

Emi Ueda, Mitsuru Watanabe, Daisuke Nakamura, Dai Matsuse, Eizo Tanaka, Kohta Fujiwara, Sawako Hashimoto, Shun Nakamura, Noriko Isobe, Koh-Hei Sonoda,
Distinct retinal reflectance spectra from retinal hyperspectral imaging in Parkinson's disease,
Journal of the Neurological Sciences,
Volume 461,
2024,
123061,
ISSN 0022-510X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2024.123061.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022510X24001965)
Abstract: Background
Recent developments in the retinal hyperspectral imaging method have indicated its potential in addressing challenges posed by neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease. This human clinical study is the first to assess reflectance spectra obtained from this imaging as a tool for diagnosing patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
Methods
Retinal hyperspectral imaging was conducted on a total of 40 participants, including 20 patients with PD and 20 controls. Following preprocessing, retinal reflectance spectra were computed for the macular retina defined by four rectangular regions. Linear discriminant analysis classifiers underwent training to discern patients with PD from control participants. To assess the performance of the selected features, nested leave-one-out cross-validation was employed using machine learning. The indicated values include the area under the curve (AUC) and the corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI).
Results
Retinal reflectance spectra of PD patients exhibited variations in the spectral regions, particularly at shorter wavelengths (superonasal retina, wavelength < 490 nm; inferonasal retina, wavelength < 510 nm) when compared to those of controls. Retinal reflectance spectra yielded an AUC of 0.60 (95% CI: 0.43–0.78) and 0.60 (95% CI: 0.43–0.78) for the superonasal and inferonasal retina, respectively, distinguishing individuals with and without PD.
Conclusion
Reflectance spectra obtained from retinal hyperspectral imaging tended to decrease at shorter wavelengths across a broad spectral range in PD patients. Further investigations building upon these preliminary findings are imperative to focus on the retinal spectral signatures associated with PD pathological hallmarks, including α-synuclein.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Retina; Retinal hyperspectral imaging; α-Synuclein; Reflectance spectra

Jiacheng Liu, Jingwen Li, Qing Cui, Ling Xiao, Xinyi Wang, Qinwei Yu, Guiying Kuang, Long Liu, Danfang Yu, Nian Xiong, Yu-Tao Li, Guo-Jun Zhang,
A combined detection of α-synuclein-related proteins enables accurate diagnosis of Parkinson's disease using a transistor biosensor,
Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical,
Volume 427,
2025,
137166,
ISSN 0925-4005,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2024.137166.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925400524018963)
Abstract: α-synuclein (α-Syn)-related proteins are indicators of Parkinson's disease (PD) detection, and the development of assays with high sensitivity for detecting α-Syn-related proteins is particularly important for early and accurate detection of PD. In this study, a polydopamine (PDA)-functionalized carbon nanotube (CNT) field effect transistor (FET) biosensor was developed for the ultrasensitive and label-free detection of α-Syn in exosomes of clinical plasma samples. Relying on the multiple active sites of PDA and the high purity of CNTs, the prepared biosensor enabled ultrasensitive and specific detection of α-Syn with the detection limits as low as 9.21 fg/mL. To improve the diagnosis accuracy of PD, a combined detection including exosomal α-Syn and plasma-level pS129-α-Syn was conducted. Using a cohort of 10 healthy donors and 40 PD patients, we demonstrated that the sensor could reliably differentiate between PD patients and healthy individuals with an accuracy of 97 %. We further found that both α-Syn and pS129-α-Syn proteins tended to increase in PD patients as the disease progressed. We envision that the developed assay could provide a clinically viable tool to improve diagnosis, prognosis, monitoring early disease recurrence for PD as well as other diseases.
Keywords: Parkinson disease; Carbon nanotube; Field effect transistors; Polydopamine; α-Syn-related proteins; Combined detection

Keagile Lepule, Maxleene Sandasi, Weiyang Chen, Alvaro Viljoen,
Neuroprotective and neurorestorative properties of Mesembryanthemum tortuosum in a Parkinson's disease zebrafish larvae model,
Journal of Ethnopharmacology,
Volume 353, Part A,
2025,
120314,
ISSN 0378-8741,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jep.2025.120314.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378874125010062)
Abstract: Ethnopharmacological relevance
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by the loss of dopaminergic neurons, resulting in reduced dopamine levels in the brain. The exact cause of dopaminergic neuron loss remains unknown but factors such as increased oxidative stress (OS), neuroinflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction have been implicated in the progression of the disease. The behavioural and molecular repertoire of PD can be modelled in zebrafish larvae using a neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Currently, there is no cure for PD, however, medicinal plants such as Mesembryanthemum tortuosum may provide neuroprotective or neurorestorative benefits resulting from their psychoactive nature, which has been widely reported.
Aim of the study
This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective and neurorestorative effects of M. tortuosum extracts on 6-OHDA-induced deficits in zebrafish larvae.
Material and methods
The mesembrine alkaloid profiles of a methanol and acid-base extract of M. tortuosum and Zembrin® were obtained using ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. In the neuroprotection assay, zebrafish larvae at 2 days post-fertilisation (dpf) were treated concurrently with 6-OHDA (250.0 μM) and M. tortuosum extracts or Zembrin® (standardised commercial M. tortuosum), and incubated for 72 h. At the end of the incubation period, locomotion was monitored using high-throughput EthoVision XT tracking software, and the reactive oxygen species (ROS) and total glutathione content (tGSH) in the larvae were also assessed. In the neurorestoration assay, the 2 dpf larvae were initially pre-treated with 6-OHDA (250.0 μM) for 24 h, and the extracts or Zembrin® were added after 24 h and incubation proceeded for a further 48 h. Locomotion, ROS and tGSH were determined at the end of the 48 h incubation. Both assays utilised L-dopa and selegiline as the positive controls.
Results
The acid-base extract contained higher levels of Δ7-mesembrenone and mesembrine compared to mesembranol and mesembrenone. Δ7-Mesembrenone was identified as the major compound in the methanol extract, while Zembrin® contained mesembrenol, mesembranol, mesembrenone and mesembrine as major compounds. Zembrin® displayed the best neuroprotective activity by significantly attenuating locomotor deficits and increasing tGSH content at all the three tested concentrations. The methanol extract displayed the best neurorestorative activity significantly restoring tGSH content, locomotor activity and ROS at varying concentrations.
Conclusions
The M. tortuosum extracts and Zembrin® containing various levels of mesembrine alkaloids improved both locomotion and oxidative stress associated with PD in a zebrafish larvae model. Furthermore, the effects of L-dopa and selegiline as core treatments in the management of PD were further confirmed in this PD zebrafish larvae model.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Neuroprotection; Neurorestoration; Mesembryanthemum tortuosum; Zebrafish larvae

E. Hutin, T. Poirier, M. Meimoun, V. Mardale, M. Ghédira,
Model-based cueing-as-needed for walking in Parkinson's disease: A randomized cross-over study,
Revue Neurologique,
Volume 180, Issue 8,
2024,
Pages 798-806,
ISSN 0035-3787,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurol.2024.05.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0035378724005320)
Abstract: Background
Correcting of the lack of regularity in steps is a key component of gait rehabilitation in Parkinson's disease. We proposed to introduce adaptive spatial auditory cueing (ASAC) based on verbal instruction “lengthen the step” automatically delivered when the stride length decreased below a predetermined threshold.
Objectives
The present study compared the effect of usual rhythmic auditory cueing versus ASAC used during a walking training in Parkinson's disease.
Methods
Fifteen patients with Parkinson's disease performed both interventions in randomized order, one week apart: a 20-minute walking training with rhythmic auditory cueing, in form of a metronome adjusted on 110% of the patient's own cadence, or ASAC delivered when the stride length is less than 110% of the patient's own stride length. Assessment criteria were walking distance covered during the intervention, speed, step length, cadence, coefficients of variation of step length and step duration, and indexes of spatial and temporal asymmetry during a walking test before and just after the intervention.
Results
The walking distance is higher with ASAC compared with rhythmic auditory cueing (rhythmic auditory cueing, 905 (203) m, mean (standard deviation); ASAC, 1043 (212) m; P=0.002). Between-intervention comparison showed some similar effects on walking after the intervention including free speed and step length increases (P<0.05).
Conclusion
The distance covered during 20-minute walking with ASAC increases by 15% compared to the use of classical rhythmic auditory cueing, while the immediate therapeutic effects show similar spatial-temporal benefits on short-distance walking. Auditory biofeedback cueing promoting the increase in step length might improve gait relearning in Parkinson's disease.
Keywords: Basal fanglia diseases; Gait analysis; Gait speed; Cues; Exercise therapy

S. Beryl B,
Exploring Novel Therapeutic Approaches in Parkinson’s Disease: A Comprehensive Review,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 134,
2025,
107642,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107642.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025003839)

Giselle Tatiana Sagredo, Onur Tanglay, Shrey Shahdadpuri, YuHong Fu, Glenda M. Halliday,
⍺-Synuclein levels in Parkinson's disease – Cell types and forms that contribute to pathogenesis,
Experimental Neurology,
Volume 379,
2024,
114887,
ISSN 0014-4886,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.114887.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014488624002139)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) has two main pathological hallmarks, the loss of nigral dopamine neurons and the proteinaceous aggregations of ⍺-synuclein (⍺Syn) in neuronal Lewy pathology. These two co-existing features suggest a causative association between ⍺Syn aggregation and the underpinning mechanism of neuronal degeneration in PD. Both increased levels and post-translational modifications of ⍺Syn can contribute to the formation of pathological aggregations of ⍺Syn in neurons. Recent studies have shown that the protein is also expressed by multiple types of non-neuronal cells in the brain and peripheral tissues, suggesting additional roles of the protein and potential diversity in non-neuronal pathogenic triggers. It is important to determine (1) the threshold levels triggering ⍺Syn to convert from a biological to a pathologic form in different brain cells in PD; (2) the dominant form of pathologic ⍺Syn and the associated post-translational modification of the protein in each cell type involved in PD; and (3) the cell type associated biological processes impacted by pathologic ⍺Syn in PD. This review integrates these aspects and speculates on potential pathological mechanisms and their impact on neuronal and non-neuronal ⍺Syn in the brains of patients with PD.
Keywords: ⍺-Synuclein; Cytopathology; Glia; Immune cells; Neuron; Parkinson's disease

Stephanie Sandoval-Pistorius, Rodrigo A. Fernandez-Gajardo, Stephanie Cernera, Sarah S. Wang, Doris D. Wang, Simon Little, Philip A. Starr,
ID# 1907185 Long-term Sensorimotor Cortex Sensing Using Implanted Subgaleal Leads During Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson’s Disease,
Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface,
Volume 28, Issue 7, Supplement,
2025,
Page S208,
ISSN 1094-7159,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurom.2025.08.395.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1094715925006713)

Snehasis Biswas, Mukesh Chawda, Ramacharya Gudi, Jayesh Bellare,
Neuroprotective effects of nanogold-based Ayurveda medicine Suvarna Bhasma against rotenone-induced Parkinson's-like model,
Journal of Ayurveda and Integrative Medicine,
Volume 15, Issue 1,
2024,
100854,
ISSN 0975-9476,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaim.2023.100854.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0975947623001717)
Abstract: Background
Neurodegenerative diseases have been one of the major concerns for human health. Genetic and environmental factors are believed to be responsible for neuronal diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and Huntington's disease. It is difficult to restore normal nervous function after neurodegeneration; hence, prevention could be the best strategy against these diseases. Ayurved medicines such as Suvarna Bhasma (SB) have enormous potential to treat these neurological diseases.
Aim
The aim of this study is to examine the protective effect of SB against rotenone-induced Parkinson's-like model in zebrafish.
Materials and methods
In this study, we induced Parkinson's-like disease model in zebrafish by inducing it with rotenone (7 μg/L). We examined the behavioural, proteomics and dopamine alterations of rotenone induced zebrafish of SB pre-treated group as compared to the control group.
Results
The behavioural experiments showed that due to rotenone exposure, Parkinson's-like behavioural abnormality was induced in zebrafish. However, because of SB treatment, this behavioural abnormality was reduced. The proteomics study of zebrafish brains clearly showed that the SB-treated group was not significantly affected due to rotenone exposure. However, in the SB non-treated group, expression of nine proteins that are linked to Parkinson's disease (gene name: sncgb, ywhae1, ywhah, uchl1, ywhaba, psma6a, ywhabl, ywhaqb, and ywhabb) were differentially expressed after rotenone exposure. Finally, prevention of dopamine alteration in SB-treated fish brains confirmed the protective action of SB against rotenone-induced Parkinson's-like model in zebrafish.
Conclusions
This study finds that Suvarna Bhasma has neuroprotective effects against Parkinson's-like disease model.
Keywords: Parkinson's; Suvarna bhasma; Rotenone; Dopamine; Neuroprotection

Haifeng Yang, Guoxin Zhang, Xingwei Gu, Juan Chen, Wenjuan Zhou, Wenwen Xu,
Letter to the editor: “Letter to the editor: Immersive virtual reality for cognitive training in Parkinson's disease – Future directions and neuroimaging perspectives”,
Journal of the Neurological Sciences,
Volume 476,
2025,
123637,
ISSN 0022-510X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2025.123637.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022510X25002540)

Srinivasan Palaniselvam, Vignesh Narasimman, R. Vijayashree, Saravanan Ramachandran,
Neuroprotective effect of nano-carboxymethyl chitosan from Doryteuthis sibogae against rotenone-induced Parkinson’s disease in the zebrafish model,
Behavioural Brain Research,
Volume 485,
2025,
115523,
ISSN 0166-4328,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115523.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432825001093)
Abstract: This study investigates the neuroprotective effects of N-carboxymethyl chitosan (N-CMC) against rotenone (ROT)-induced Parkinson's disease (PD) in a zebrafish (ZF) model. In vivo experiments revealed that ROT-exposed ZF larvae exhibited reduced locomotor activity, increased edge preference, and impaired touch response, while N-CMC treatment significantly improved these behavioral parameters. The reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in ROT-exposed larvae were elevated (37.75 %) but decreased with N-CMC treatment (30.28 %). Apoptosis was also reduced from 38.87 % in ROT-exposed larvae to 16.52 % with N-CMC treatment. In vitro studies using the N2A cell line confirmed N-CMC’s neuroprotective effects. In adult ZF, ROT exposure decreased locomotion, and N-CMC treatment reversed these effects, as demonstrated through ToxTrac analysis. Novel Tank and Light/Dark tests showed significant behavioral improvements with N-CMC. Neurotransmitter analysis indicated increased dopamine, GABA, and glutamate levels in ROT-exposed ZF, which were moderated with N-CMC treatment. Gene expression analysis of gap43, syn2a, and tuba1b showed upregulation in ROT-exposed ZF, while N-CMC treatment downregulated these genes. Antioxidant assays demonstrated that ROT decreased SOD, CAT, and GSH levels in the brain, while N-CMC treatment increased these antioxidant levels by 1.3-fold, 7.5-fold, and 1.3-fold, respectively. Histopathology revealed neuronal degeneration in ROT-exposed ZF brains, but N-CMC treatment protected the neuronal loss. This study is the first to explore the neuroprotective and antioxidant properties of N-CMC in a ZF model, indicating its potential therapeutic benefits over conventional ROT-based treatments for PD.
Keywords: N-CMC; ZF; ToxTrac; Antioxidant; PD

Chunge Xie, Peikun He, Rong Gan, Jieling Chen, Xuetao He, Rong Yang, Limin Wang, Kun Nie, Lijuan Wang,
Differential diagnosis value of sympathetic skin response and cutaneous silent period on early-stage multiple system atrophy and Parkinson disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 126,
2024,
107046,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107046.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024010587)
Abstract: Purpose
Early differentiation between Parkinson's disease (PD) and Multiple system atrophy (MSA), particularly the parkinsonian subtypes (MSA-P), is challenging due to similar clinical symptoms. We aimed to evaluate Sympathetic skin response (SSR) and Cutaneous silent period (CSP) parameters in patients with MSA-P and PD to identify possible biomarkers that could distinguish the two groups of patients in early stage.
Methods
22 individuals with early-stage MSA-P, 29 with early-stage PD, and 28 healthy controls were recruited from Guangdong Provincial People's Hospital. Demographic data was collected for all participants. Their SSR and CSP were evaluated using clinical electromyography equipment. Data were compared between different groups. The diagnostic accuracy of SSR and CSP parameters was calculated using the ROC curve. Logistic regression was used to produce an integration model to enhance diagnostic utility.
Results
Foot amplitude, CSP end latency and duration distinguished MSA-P from PD with the area under the curve (AUC) 0.770, 0.806, and 0.776, respectively. Foot and hand SSR amplitude distinguished PD from HC with the AUC 0.871 and 0.768, respectively. Foot SSR amplitude, hand SSR amplitude, and CSP end latency distinguished MSA-P from HC with the AUC 0.964, 0.872, and 0.812, respectively. The combination of SSR and CSP parameters differentiation between MSA-P and PD, PD and HC with the AUC 0.829 and 0.879, respectively.
Conclusions
Analysis of SSR and CSP parameters showed excellent diagnostic accuracy in discriminating patients with early-stage MSA-P from HC and good diagnostic accuracy in discriminating patients with MSA-P from PD with early stages.
Keywords: Multiple system atrophy; Parkinson's disease; Diagnosis; Sympathetic skin response; Cutaneous silent period

Yawen Cai, Guiqin Huang, Chenxiao Shan, Xiaohang Zhang, LING YuYan, Yu Fu, Menghui Ren, Tianhua Yan, Min Xu, Lingpeng Zhu,
Liquiritin in Chaihu-shugan-san alleviates Parkinson's Disease via PPARα-mediated inhibition of SCD1/FADS2-dependent Ferroptosis,
Phytomedicine,
Volume 148,
2025,
157262,
ISSN 0944-7113,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phymed.2025.157262.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0944711325009018)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with increasing global prevalence. Chaihu-shugan-san (CSS) is a Chinese medicine compound with reported neuroprotective properties. However, the precise bioactive constituents and underlying mechanisms of CSS in the context of PD remain poorly defined.
Purpose
This study aimed to systematically evaluate the therapeutic potential of CSS, characterize its bioactive constituents, and elucidate the potential molecular mechanisms in PD.
Methods
A network pharmacology-bioinformatics framework was established to predict the potential targets of CSS in PD. MPTP-induced PD mouse models were validated by behavioral tests, histopathology (HE staining), immunohistochemistry (IHC), and Western blot (WB). Machine learning and ROC curve analysis pinpointed key ferroptosis-related genes linked to CSS and PD, with functional enrichment highlighting possible pathways. Further validation was performed using IHC, GPx, MDA, and WB assays. UPLC-MS/MS was employed to characterize bioactive CSS components, followed by druggability screening, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. In vitro, MES23.5 cells exposed to MPP⁺ were used to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of Liquiritin (LIQ), the principal active compound in CSS, via CCK-8, LDH, oxidative stress markers (GPx, MDA), lipid peroxidation (C11-BODIPY), iron accumulation (FerroOrange), and WB. Additional validation of ferroptosis modulation was performed in vivo and in vitro.
Results
Multidisciplinary investigations employing prediction and experimental validation consistently demonstrated the neuroprotective effects of CSS against MPTP-induced PD mouse. Machine learning, ROC curve analysis and in vivo validation identified CSS ameliorates PD by inhibiting ferroptosis through PPARα activation. Intriguingly, CSS exhibited therapeutic potential by counteracting ferroptosis-triggered PD-like pathological manifestations in mice. Integrated analysis involving UPLC-MS/MS, druggability screening, molecular docking and MD simulations demonstrated LIQ to be a core bioactive compound in CSS. Mechanistic studies revealed that LIQ protects against MPP+- or erastin-induced ferroptosis in MES23.5 cells via activation of the PPARα/SCD1/FADS2 pathway. Pharmacological inhibition of PPARα abolished LIQ's protective effects against both ferroptosis and PD progression, definitively establishing PPARα activation as essential for LIQ-mediated neuroprotection.
Conclusion
LIQ, a major bioactive component of CSS, ameliorates PD pathology by inhibiting ferroptosis through activation of the PPARα/SCD1/FADS2 signaling pathway. These findings uncover a novel anti-ferroptosis mechanism and provide a promising therapeutic framework for the prevention and treatment of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Chaihu-shugan-san; Liquiritin; PPARα; Ferroptosis

Patrick Oluwole Abolarin, Abdulbasit Amin, Abdulrazaq Bidemi Nafiu, Olalekan Michael Ogundele, Bamidele Victor Owoyele,
Optimization of Parkinson's disease therapy with plant extracts and nutrition’s evolving roles,
IBRO Neuroscience Reports,
Volume 17,
2024,
Pages 1-12,
ISSN 2667-2421,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibneur.2024.05.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S266724212400054X)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by death of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Death of dopaminergic cells in the SNpc leads to manifestations of motor dysfunction and non-motor symptoms of PD. The progression of PD symptoms severely affects the quality of life of patients and poses socio-economic problems to families and society at large. The clinical and neuropathological characteristics of PD are triggered by multiple factors such as oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and protein aggregation. Notwithstanding the advancements in pharmacological therapy in PD management, there is burgeoning interest in alternative and complementary approaches, essentially nutrition and plant extracts strategies. This review gives widespread analysis of the role of nutrition and plant extracts in the management of PD. Studies that investigated the effects of various dietary compounds and plant extract on PD symptoms and progression were reviewed from existing literatures. Nutraceuticals, including vitamins and phytochemicals such as Mucuna pruriens have shown potential neuroprotective functions in preclinical and clinical studies. Indeed, these strategies ameliorate mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation, all which are implicated in the pathogenesis of PD. The neuroprotective mechanisms of nutrition and plant extracts in PD, with emphasis on their capacity to target multiple pathways implicated in PD are discussed. Additionally, challenges and limitations related with translating preclinical findings into clinical practice including standardization of dosing regimens, bioavailability, and inter-individual variability are discussed. Largely, this review elucidates on the role of nutrition and plant extracts as adjunctive therapy in PD management.
Keywords: Phytotherapy; Parkinson’s disease; Parkinsonism; Nutrition; Substantia nigra; Flora

Camilla Christina Pedersen, Jodi Maple-Grødem, Johannes Lange,
A systematic review of biofluid phosphorylated α-synuclein in Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 132,
2025,
107240,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107240.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024012525)
Abstract: Introduction
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease, and biomarkers are needed to enhance earlier detection and monitoring. Alpha-synuclein, phosphorylated at serine 129 (pS129-α-syn), is the predominant form of α-syn found in Lewy bodies implicating an involvement in disease pathology. This review aims to systematically evaluate the evidence for pS129-α-syn detection in human biofluid samples of PD utilizing ELISA-based protein detection methods.
Methods
A systematic review was conducted following the Preferred Reported Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. Electronic searches were performed in PubMed, Web of Science, and Cochrane databases from inception to November 7th, 2024, to identify studies comparing pS129-α-syn in biofluids of PD patients with controls or related neurodegenerative disease. Risk of bias was assessed for each study.
Results
Twenty-three publications met the inclusion criteria, with pS129-α-syn detected in cerebrospinal fluid, plasma, red blood cells, serum, and saliva exosomes. Overall, pS129-α-syn levels were elevated in patients with PD compared to controls, and in some studies, correlated with disease severity. There was no consistent pattern when comparing PD patients to those with related neurodegenerative diseases. Significant variability in pS129-α-syn levels and considerable overlap between groups may limit the utility as a biomarker.
Conclusion
While pS129-α-syn for PD shows some promise as a diagnostic marker for PD, its differential diagnostic utility remains limited. Further research involving larger cohorts is required. The greatest potential for pS129-α-syn may be as part of a panel with other PD-specific markers, to enhance diagnostic accuracy and prognostic value.

Christopher I. Villamar-Flores, Mayela Rodríguez-Violante, Arturo Abundes-Corona, Vanessa Alatriste-Booth, Matilde Valencia-Flores, Yaneth Rodríguez-Agudelo, Amín Cervantes-Arriaga, Rodolfo Solís-Vivanco,
Association between alterations in sleep spindles and cognitive decline in persons with Parkinson’s disease,
Neuroscience Letters,
Volume 842,
2024,
138006,
ISSN 0304-3940,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neulet.2024.138006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304394024003859)
Abstract: Background
Sleep macro and microstructural features have a relevant role for cognition. Although alterations in sleep macrostructure have been reported in persons with neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson’s disease (PD), it is unknown whether there is a relationship between alterations in microstructure (sleep spindles) and global cognitive deficits in this disease.
Objective
To explore the association between the macro and microstructure of sleep (sleep spindles) and the general cognitive state in persons with PD.
Methods
Thirty-three patients with idiopathic PD underwent a one-night polysomnography (PSG) and a global cognitive assessment using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) test. PSG-based macrostructural sleep values and quantification and spectral estimation of sleep spindles were obtained.
Results
We found increases in total sleep time, latency to rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and percentage of N1 stage, as well as a decrease in percentage of REM sleep and sleep efficiency compared to values reported in healthy adults. Compared to expected values, a decrease in the number of sleep spindles was found at frontal regions. Participants with cognitive impairment showed an even lower count of sleep spindles, as well as an increase in the amplitude of underlying sigma (12–16 Hz) waves (fast spindles). When exploring MoCA subdomains, we found a consistent relationship between the number and amplitude of sleep spindles and attention capacity.
Conclusions
Decreased number and increased amplitude of sleep spindles are linked to cognitive impairment in persons with PD, especially in attention capacity. Therefore, sleep spindles characteristics could serve as prognostic indicators of cognitive deterioration in PD.
Keywords: Cognitive impairment; Parkinson’s disease; Sleep; Spindles

Michael L. Alosco, Charles H. Adler, David W. Dodick, Yorghos Tripodis, Laura J. Balcer, Charles Bernick, Sarah J. Banks, William B. Barr, Jennifer V. Wethe, Joseph N. Palmisano, Brett Martin, Kaitlin Hartlage, Robert C. Cantu, Yonas E. Geda, Douglas I. Katz, Jesse Mez, Jeffery L. Cummings, Martha E. Shenton, Eric M. Reiman, Robert A. Stern,
Examination of parkinsonism in former elite American football players,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 120,
2024,
105903,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2023.105903.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802023009823)
Abstract: Background
Former American football players are at risk for chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) which may have parkinsonism as a clinical feature.
Objective
Former football players were prospectively assessed for parkinsonism.
Methods
120 former professional football players, 58 former college football players, and 60 same-age asymptomatic men without repetitive head impacts, 45–74 years, were studied using the MDS-UPDRS to assess for parkinsonism, and the Timed Up and Go (TUG). Traumatic encephalopathy syndrome (TES), the clinical syndrome of CTE, was adjudicated and includes parkinsonism diagnosis. Fisher's Exact Test compared groups on parkinsonism due to small cell sizes; analysis of covariance or linear regressions controlling for age and body mass index were used otherwise.
Results
Twenty-two (12.4%) football players (13.3% professional, 10.3% college) met parkinsonism criteria compared with two (3.3%) in the unexposed group. Parkinsonism was higher in professional (p = 0.037) but not college players (p = 0.16). There were no differences on the MDS-UPDRS Part III total scores. Scores on the individual MDS-UPDRS items were low. TUG times were longer in former professional but not college players compared with unexposed men (13.09 versus 11.35 s, p < 0.01). There were no associations between years of football, age of first exposure, position or level of play on motor outcomes. TES status was not associated with motor outcomes.
Conclusions
Parkinsonism rates in this sample of football players was low and highest in the professional football players. The association between football and parkinsonism is inconclusive and depends on factors related to sample selection, comparison groups, and exposure characteristics.
Keywords: Traumatic encephalopathy syndrome; Parkinsonism; Chronic traumatic encephalopathy

Hussaini Adam, Subash C.B. Gopinath, Hemavathi Krishnan, Tijjani Adam, Mohammed Mohammed, Veeradasan Perumal, Makram A. Fakhri, Evan T. Salim, Pachaiappan Raman, Sreeramanan Subramaniam, Yeng Chen, Sreenivasan Sasidharan,
Cyclic and differential pulse voltammetric measurements on fibrils formation of alpha synuclein in Parkinson’s disease by a gold interdigitated tetraelectrodes,
Process Biochemistry,
Volume 136,
2024,
Pages 212-220,
ISSN 1359-5113,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procbio.2023.11.019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359511323003793)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the aggregation and deposition of alpha-synuclein protein, which are pathological hallmarks. To understand the fibril formation of alpha-synuclein in Parkinson's disease, this study uses cyclic and differential pulse voltammetric measurements. These measurements analyze the electrochemical properties and behavior of alpha-synuclein during its fibril formation process. By applying a potential sweep or pulse to the alpha-synuclein sample, it is possible to gain insights into its redox activity and structural changes during fibril formation. This could lead to the development of therapeutic strategies to prevent or disrupt this pathological event in Parkinson's disease. To detect Parkinson's disease, a 15 nm sized gold conjugated antibody was used as the probe and seeded on gold interdigitated tetraelectrodes (AuIDTE). Alpha synuclein variations (fibriled and non-fibriled) were detected using phosphate-buffer saline and glycine buffer based on cyclic voltammetry and differential pulse voltammetry techniques. Discriminated by Tau protein measurement that was employed as a control. The linear regression for detecting alpha synuclein aggregation using differential pulse voltammetry was R2 = 0.9987 [y = 9E-06x - 4E-07], with a limit of detection of 10 aM, on a linear range of 1 aM-1 pM. Cyclic voltammetry determined the limit of detection of aggregated alpha synuclein to be 100 aM, with a linear relationship of R2 = 0.9939 [y = 7E-06x - 2E-06]. The sensor has excellent analytical performance in terms of detection limit, sensitivity, selectivity, repeatability, and stability.
Keywords: Biomarker; Parkinson’s disease; Nanobiosensor; Amyloid fibrils; Nanomaterial

Jiahao Feng, Jin Zhao, Yong Kuang, Yuheng Zhou, Ziheng Ye, Yutong He, Dandan Chen, Li Zhang, Tingying Zhang, Qingqing Zhu, Shumin Cheng, Taoli Liu,
Hsa_Circ_0105596/FTO inhibits progression of Parkinson's disease by sponging miR-187-3p and regulating eEF2,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 23,
2024,
e39830,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39830.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024158616)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) characterized by inflammation and protein erroneous deposition, whose pathological mechanisms have not been elucidated. NcRNA plays important role in PD, especially when circRNA sponges miRNA, which leads to the breakdown of downstream regulation. The aim of this study is to investigate the dynamic changes between upregulated circRNA and downregulated miRNA during the pathogenesis of PD and their impact on downstream miRNA targets.
Method
We conducted bioinformatics on sequencing data of substantia nigra (SN) and striatum, and intersected differentially expressed genes (Degs) to determine core role of circFTO-miR-187-3p-EEF2 axes in the progression of PD. Firstly, therapeutic effect of knock-down circFTO in PD and its impact on EEF2 were determined in mouse, using immunohistochemistry, HE, Nissl, TUNEL staining and Western blot (WB). Targeted binding relationship between circFTO, miR-187-3p, and EEF2 was determined through RNA binding protein immunoprecipitation assays (RIP) and dual luciferase reporter assay. The significance of gene in apoptosis was confirmed through flow cytometry, lentiviral transduction, quantitative real-time PCR, and WB.
Result
CircFTO is upregulated and miR-187-3p is downregulated in SN of PD. EEF2 was the core of neural repair related modules in both SN and striatum using Weighted Correlation Network Analysis (WGCNA) and protein-protein interaction (PPI). The binding regulation relationship between circFTO-miR-187-3p-EEF2 was determined through structural analysis, RIP, and dual luciferase reporter assay. After knocking-down circFTO, animals showed alleviated symptoms, decreased levels of oxidative stress and EEF2. Upregulation of miR-187-3p or si-circFTO in SH-SY5Y cells can reduce cell apoptosis, EEF2, and oxidative stress. Moreover, individual interference with EEF2 can partially counteract the induction of 6-OHDA on apoptosis.
Conclusion
Excessive circFTO sponging miR-187-3p leads to the inability of miR-187-3p to effectively regulate expression of EEF2, resulting in the progression of PD. Moreover, interference with circFTO can effectively reduce brain inflammation and oxidative stress.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease (PD); Hsa_Circ_0105596 (circFTO); miR-187-3p; Transcriptome analysis; Neuronal apoptosis

BaoLing Chen, Hang Zhou, XinZi Liu, Wanlin Yang, Yuqi Luo, Shuzhen Zhu, Jialing Zheng, Xiaobo Wei, Ling-Ling Chan, Eng-King Tan, Qing Wang,
Correlations of gray matter volume with peripheral cytokines in Parkinson's disease,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 201,
2024,
106693,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2024.106693.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996124002936)
Abstract: Introduction
Peripheral cytokine levels may affect specific brain volumes. Few studies have examined this possible relationship.
Objective
In a case–control study, we used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) voxel-based morphological analysis techniques to examine the relationship between gray matter volume changes and cognitive, motor and emotional dysfunction as well as between gray matter volume changes and peripheral blood cytokine levels.
Method
A total of 134 subjects, comprising 66 PD patients and 68 healthy controls, were recruited. Peripheral venous blood was collected to measure the concentrations of 12 cytokines, including IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p70, IL-17, IFN-α, IFN-γ, and TNF-α. All the subjects also underwent MRI, where 3D-T1-weighted MR images were used for the analysis. In addition, the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE), Unified Parkinson's disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAMA), and Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD) scores were assessed in PD patients. Statistical parameter mapping 12 software was used for the statistical analysis of the images.
Result
Compared with control patients, PD patients presented decreased gray matter volume (GMV) in the bilateral frontal lobe, temporal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, insula, and right cerebellar lobule VIII. Regional GMV in the temporal lobe, parietal lobe, and cerebellum was correlated with MoCA, MMSE, UPDRS, HAMA, and HAMD scores in PDs. In addition, the regional GMV in PDs was correlated with the concentrations of cytokines, including IL-4, IL-6, IFN-γ, and TNF-α. The IL-6 concentration was negatively correlated with the UPDRS-IV score.
Conclusion
PD patients exhibit gray matter atrophy in a wide range of brain regions, which are symmetrically distributed and mainly concentrated in the frontal and temporal lobes, and these changes may be linked to motor disorders and neuropsychiatric manifestations. Cytokine concentrations in peripheral blood are correlated with regional gray matter volume in PDs, and the IL-6 level affects gray matter volume in the left precentral gyrus and the manifestation of motor complications.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Cytokines; Voxel-based morphometry analysis; Gray matter volume; Clinical manifestations

Nayeon Lee, Dakyeon Lee, Jae Hyeok Lee, Bo Seok Lee, Sungjee Kim, Jae Ho Kim, Sanghwa Jeong,
Nanosensor-based imaging of realtime dopamine release in neurons derived from iPSCs of patients with Parkinson's disease,
Materials Today Bio,
Volume 31,
2025,
101485,
ISSN 2590-0064,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtbio.2025.101485.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590006425000432)
Abstract: Dopamine (DA) is an essential neuromodulator that underlies critical aspects of cognitive processes, motor function, and reward systems. Disruptions in DA signaling contribute to various neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD). Despite its important role in neuronal function, the impact of DA release/uptake on neurochemical imbalances during neuronal development remains unclear. We propose a novel application of near-infrared catecholamine nanosensor (NIRCat) for real-time visualization of DA neurotransmission among neurodegenerative disease cells. The near-infrared fluorescence (900–1400 nm) of NIRCat allows the semi-quantitative measurement of DA release in living neurons and offers insights into cellular dynamics and neuropathological development. In this study, we applied NIRCat to elucidate DA release in human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs)-derived dopaminergic neurons from both healthy control and PD patient carrying GBA1 mutations. We accurately quantified electrically stimulated DA release events, identifying distinct ‘hotspots’ of activity across DA neuronal cells. Our findings present a significantly enhanced spatial and temporal resolution of DA signaling, providing a deeper understanding of the role and balance of DA release in the progression of neurodegenerative disease.
Keywords: Near-infrared fluorescence; Dopamine release; Carbon nanotube; Real-time visualization; Parkinson's disease

Xumei Wang, Ke Wu, Kejia Hou, Wenyu Xie, Shangshen Yang, Kai Wang, Xinyuan Zhai, Xiaoming Wang, Haiqiang Jiang, Zhixin Tang,
A highly selective fluorescent probe for monitoring MAO-B and screening inhibitors to alleviate Parkinson's disease,
Chemical Engineering Journal,
Volume 520,
2025,
165768,
ISSN 1385-8947,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2025.165768.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1385894725066069)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) represents a progressive neurodegenerative condition primarily marked by the selective loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons within the substantia nigra (SN), leading to a consequent depletion of DA levels in the striatal (STR) region. Studies have indicated that pharmacological inhibition of monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) activity exerts neuroprotective effects by attenuating DA catabolism in the STR, thereby enhancing DA neurotransmission and ameliorating motor impairments associated with PD. Therefore, the discovery and use of MAO-B inhibitors may be an exciting and interesting strategy for the treatment of PD. The development of effective MAO-B fluorescent probes offers significant potential for early PD diagnosis, screening MAO-B inhibitors, and investigating the molecular mechanisms involved in PD intervention. However, there are relatively few reports on specific fluorescent probes for detecting MAO-B in PD. Herein, we report the design and synthesis of an activatable fluorescent probe (DCN-MB) for sensitive and specific imaging of MAO-B in PD. Bioimaging experiments demonstrated that DCN-MB exhibits excellent imaging capabilities for detecting MAO-B in living cells, zebrafish, and PD mouse models. Modern research has confirmed that the primary active components, phenylethanoid glycosides, exhibit neuroprotective effects. Consequently, we performed a systematic review to evaluate its therapeutic potential in the PD model. Notably, using the DCN-MB probe, we successfully identified Echinacoside (ECH) as one of nine phenylethanoid glycosides and an effective MAO-B inhibitor. Further investigation revealed that ECH activates the SLC7A11/Gpx4 signaling pathway, inhibiting ferroptosis, reducing DA neuron loss, and exerting neuroprotective effects. Overall, this work provides a powerful tool for studying MAO-B-related pathological mechanisms in PD and screening potential compounds for PD prevention and treatment.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Fluorescence probe; Monoamine oxidase B; Echinacoside; Ferroptosis

Jian-Mei Gao, Wen-Bo Li, Yang Yi, Jia-Jia Wei, Miao-Xian Gong, Bin-Bin Pan, Xun-Cheng Su, Yu-Chen Pan, Dong-Sheng Guo, Qi-Hai Gong,
α-Synuclein targeted therapy with multiple pathological improvement for Parkinson's disease by macrocyclic amphiphile nanomedicine,
Biomaterials,
Volume 322,
2025,
123378,
ISSN 0142-9612,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biomaterials.2025.123378.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142961225002972)
Abstract: The toxic species formed by the pathological aggregation of α-synuclein (α-Syn) is one of the core pathogenic mechanisms in Parkinson's disease, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress and ultimately degeneration and loss of dopaminergic neurons. Developing effective inhibitors targeting α-Syn fibrillization critically requires the simultaneous achievement of (1) strong and selective binding of α-Syn for efficient disintegration of fibrils, as well as (2) robust transmembrane capability for efficient cellular uptake. Herein, the co-assembly of guanidinium-modified calixarene (GCA) and cyclodextrin (CD), termed GCA-CD, is screened fully accommodating these conditions. GCA-CD binds tightly and selectively towards α-Syn, thereby effectively inhibiting α-Syn aggregation and disintegrating its fibrils, meanwhile the guanidinium of GCA can additionally improve the transmembrane capability of the co-assembly. In vivo investigations demonstrate that the GCA-CD nanomedicine significantly rescues motor deficits and nigrostriatal degeneration of PD-like rats by decreasing the content of α-Syn as well as restoring mitochondrial dysfunction and suppressing oxidative stress. Astonishingly, transcriptome analysis further reveals the role of GCA-CD in dampening cuproptosis through inhibiting FDX1/LIAS signaling pathway, highlighting the multifaceted therapeutic effects of the co-assembly in PD. The findings in this study underscore the comprehensive exposition on the actual function mechanisms of the therapeutic agents, thereby providing valuable insights for informing material design.
Keywords: Molecular recognition; Fibril disintegration; α-Synuclein; Parkinson's disease; Cuproptosis

Seo Hyun Hong, Seoyeon Kim, Seungmin Lee, Bora Jin, Jung Hwan Shin, Kyung Ah Woo, Han-Joon Kim,
Hospital utilization and telemedicine preferences in patients with late-stage Parkinson’s disease and caregivers,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 12,
2025,
100296,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2024.100296.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112524000677)
Abstract: Background
There remains a significant gap in systematic research on healthcare utilization behaviors and the influencing factors for patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD), particularly those in late stages.
Methods
PD patients in late stage (Hoehn and Yahr (HY) stages 4 and 5) and their caregivers from Seoul National University Hospital Movement Disorders Clinic participated. A total of 103 respondents completed a questionnaire covering medical utilization behaviors, perceptions of face-to-face and telemedicine consultations, and additional medical service needs. Descriptive analysis was conducted based on HY stage, age, and travel time to the hospital.
Results
82.1% of patients in HY4 make more than 50% of in-person visits by themselves or with caregivers, compared with only 38.9% of patients in HY5. Despite proxy visits by caregivers were common, audiovisual or written materials about the patient’s condition were underused (63% answered ‘never’). Over three-quarters of patients did not receive rehabilitation therapy, mainly due to mobility issues and the lack of nearby facilities. One third of respondents were open to telemedicine, with differing preferences between age groups. 22% of HY5 patients or their caregivers were willing to pay more for telemedicine than in-person visit.
Conclusion
This study seeks to understand hospital use patterns and needs in late-stage PD patients and their caregivers. Current treatment framework for PD has areas that, if improved, could significantly enhance the quality of care. Telemedicine offers an opportunity to enhance PD education and assessment, introducing new methods for remotely measuring symptoms.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Late-stage; Hospital utilization; Telemedicine; Rehabilitation

Nikita Aggarwal, Barjinder Singh Saini, Savita Gupta,
A multi-layered stacked classifier developed for diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease and SWEDD patients using fusion of multimodal data,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 108,
2025,
107924,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2025.107924.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809425004355)
Abstract: Early detection of Parkinson’s disease (PD) is difficult due to overlapping with the common symptoms of other neuro-disorders. One of the most prominent of these related diseases is SWEDD (scans without evidence of dopamine deficit), which is considered clinically similar to PD and also has normal dopamine transporter scans. Therefore, there is a pressing need for a reliable method for distinguishing PD from SWEDD and related disorders. To handle this problem, the association between PD and SWEDD has been explored using the fusion of features based on multimodal data (biological, clinical, and imaging). First, the data is normalized by implementing the min–max normalization. Subsequently, feature selection and data-balancing strategies are applied to select optimal features and overcome the data imbalance issue. In addition, a multi-layered stacking (MULS) classifier of three layers is proposed for classification. Also, Bayesian optimization and 5-fold nested stratified cross-validation for hyperparameter tuning are applied on each layer of the MULS classifier. The performance of the developed classifier is estimated using the best feature set against three binary classifications. From the outcomes, it has been observed that the MULS classifier achieved better results for classification between PD and SWEDD compared to the methods in the literature. The results yielded are 97.38% accuracy, 96.21% f1-score, 98.78% sensitivity, 98.47% precision, and 98.21% area under the curve. Furthermore, the impact of multimodal fusion features is analyzed, and also the proposed model is validated with the independent datasets. Hence, the suggested method is believed to help healthcare professionals analyze diseases early.
Keywords: Ensemble learning; Fusion of multimodal features; Multi-layered stacking; Parkinson’s disease; SWEDD

Jens Volkmann,
Deep brain stimulation in Parkinson's disease: opening up the race towards better technology,
The Lancet Neurology,
Volume 11, Issue 2,
2012,
Pages 121-123,
ISSN 1474-4422,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1474-4422(12)70002-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474442212700029)

Zhi-Hong Wen, Ya-Jen Chiu, San-Nan Yang, Tzu-Yi Huang, Chien-Wei Feng, Nan-Fu Chen, Chun-Sung Sung, Wu-Fu Chen,
Soft Corals-derived Dihydrosinularin Attenuates Neuronal Apoptosis in 6-hydroxydopamine-induced Cell Model of Parkinson's Disease by Regulating the PI3K Pathway,
Current Medicinal Chemistry,
Volume 32, Issue 8,
2025,
Pages 1606-1620,
ISSN 0929-8673,
https://doi.org/10.2174/0109298673323198240823070219.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0929867325000055)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is an irreversible, progressive disorder that profoundly impacts both motor and non-motor functions, thereby significantly diminishing the individual’s quality of life. Dihydrosinularin (DHS), a natural bioactive molecule derived from soft corals, exhibits low cytotoxicity and anti-inflammatory properties. However, the therapeutic effects of DHS on neurotoxins and PD are currently unknown.
Objective
This study investigated whether DHS could mitigate 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced neurotoxicity and explored the role of neuroprotective PI3K downstream signaling pathways, including that of AKT, ERK, JNK, BCL2, and NFκB, in DHS-mediated neuroprotection.
Methods
We treated the human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y, with the neurotoxin 6-OHDA to establish a cellular model of PD. Meanwhile, we assessed the anti-apoptotic and neuroprotective properties of DHS through cell viability, apoptosis, and immunostaining assays. Furthermore, we utilized the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 to validate the therapeutic target of DHS.
Results
Based on the physicochemical properties of DHS, it can be inferred that it has promising oral bioavailability and permeability across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). It was demonstrated that DHS upregulates phosphorylated AKT and ERK while downregulating phosphorylated JNK. Consequently, this enhances the expression of BCL2, which exerts a protective effect on neuronal cells by inhibiting caspase activity and preventing cell apoptosis. The inhibition of PI3K significantly reduced the relative protective activity of DHS in 6-OHDA-induced neurotoxicity, suggesting that the neuroprotective effects of DHS are mediated through the activation of PI3K signaling.
Conclusion
By investigating the mechanisms involved in 6-OHDA-induced neurotoxicity, we provided evidence concerning the therapeutic potential of DHS in neuroprotection. Further research into DHS and its mechanisms of action holds promise for developing novel therapeutic strategies for PD.
Keywords: Dihydrosinularin; parkinson's disease; 6-hydroxydopamine; PI3K signaling pathway; neuroprotection; natural bioactive molecule

Sijia Zhu, Meijun Liu, Shiyu Han, Jingyi Zhu, Xinmin Deng, Yanyan Tian, Dongdong Yang,
Revealing the therapeutic targets, mechanisms, and heterogeneity of Huatan Jieyu Granules for Parkinson's disease through single-cell sequencing,
Journal of Pharmaceutical and Biomedical Analysis,
Volume 257,
2025,
116679,
ISSN 0731-7085,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpba.2025.116679.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0731708525000202)
Abstract: Background
The incidence of Parkinson's disease (PD) increases with age. Previous pharmacological studies have shown the potential of Huatan Jieyu Granules (HGs) for the treatment of PD, but the exact mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to explore the effects of herbal treatment on PD using mouse models and single-cell sequencing.
Methods
In this study, we established in vivo 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD models in mice. Motor function was assessed through behavioral tests. Immunofluorescence was used to examine dopaminergic neuron loss. Single-cell sequencing was performed on mice from the blank, PD model and medication groups. After quality control and dimensionality reduction of the single-cell data, cells were clustered, and different cell types were identified. We then identified the intersection of differentially expressed genes (DEGs1) in the blank and model groups and DEGs2 in the model and medication groups, yielding intersected DEGs. Key drug targets were identified by intersecting these DEGs with the drug targets of active ingredients in TCM. Topological analysis of the PPI network was used to identify key genes. Cell types exhibiting high expression of these genes were designated as key cells. These key cells were subjected to cellular communication analysis and temporal analysis, after which they were classified into subtypes.
Results
HGs significantly improved motor function and prevented dopaminergic neuronal loss in the substantia nigra (SN) of MPTP-treated mice. A total of 34 cell clusters were delineated, with 9 cell types identified, including oligodendrocytes (oligo), neurons, and T cells. We identified 758 intersected DEGs and 13 key drug targets, including Egfr, Ntrk2, Grm5, Htr2c, Bcl2l1. Oligo and neuronal cells were identified as key cells due to higher expression levels of these key genes. In the cellular communication analysis, oligo-neuronal interactions in the blank and model groups, and oligo-OPC and oligo-T cell interactions in the medication group, exhibited the most receptor-ligand interactions. In temporal analysis, both oligo and neuronal cells were differentiated into 9 states, with C1 being the most differentiated.
Conclusion
HGs demonstrate neuroprotective effects in MPTP-treated mice. Using single-cell sequencing, we identified five key genes (Egfr, Ntrk2, Grm5, Htr2c, Bcl2l1) and two key cell types (oligo and neuronal) related to HGs in PD. These findings provided a foundation for understanding the molecular mechanisms by which HGs treat PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Huatan Jieyu Granules; Single-cell sequencing; Key genes; Key cells

Filip Fredlund, Claes Fryklund, Olivia Trujeque-Ramos, Hannah A. Staley, Joaquin Pardo, Kelvin C. Luk, Malú G. Tansey, Maria Swanberg,
Lack of neuroprotection after systemic administration of the soluble TNF inhibitor XPro1595 in an rAAV6-α-Syn + PFFs-induced rat model for Parkinson's disease,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 207,
2025,
106841,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106841.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996125000579)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by dopaminergic neurodegeneration, α-Synuclein (α-Syn) pathology, and inflammation. Microglia in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) upregulate major histocompatibility complex class II (MHCII), and variants in genes encoding MHCII affect PD risk. Additionally, elevated TNF levels and α-Syn-reactive T cells in circulation suggest a strong link between innate and adaptive immune responses in PD. We have previously reported that reduced levels of the class II transactivator, the master regulator of MHCII expression, increases susceptibility to α-Syn-induced PD-like pathology in rats and are associated with higher serum levels of soluble TNF (sTNF). Here, we demonstrate that inhibiting sTNF with a dominant-negative TNF variant, XPro1595, known to be neuroprotective in endotoxin- and toxin-induced neurodegeneration models, fails to protect against robust α-Syn-induced PD-like pathology in rats. We used a model combining rAAV-mediated α-Syn overexpression in SNpc with striatal injection of α-Syn preformed fibrils two weeks later. Systemic XPro1595 treatment was initiated one-week post-rAAV-α-Syn. We observed up to 70 % loss of striatal dopaminergic fibers without treatment, and no protective effects on dopaminergic neurodegeneration after XPro1595 administration. Pathological α-Syn levels as well as microglial and astrocytic activation were not reduced in SNpc or striatum following XPro1595 treatment. An increase in IL-6 and IL-1β levels in CSF was observed in rats treated with XPro1595, possibly explaining a lack of protective effects following treatment. Our results highlight the need to determine the importance of timing of treatment initiation, which is crucial for future applications of sTNF therapies in PD patients.
Keywords: TNF; Parkinson's disease; Neurodegeneration; Neuroinflammation; α-Synuclein; PFF; CIITA

Xin He, Mulan Chen, Yepeng Fan, Bin Wu, Zhifang Dong,
TFE3-mediated neuroprotection: Clearance of aggregated α-synuclein and accumulated mitochondria in the AAV-α-synuclein model of Parkinson's disease,
Genes & Diseases,
Volume 12, Issue 2,
2025,
101429,
ISSN 2352-3042,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gendis.2024.101429.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352304224002265)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by fibrillar neuronal inclusions containing aggregated α-synuclein (α-Syn). While the pathology of PD is multifaceted, the aggregation of α-Syn and mitochondrial dysfunction are well-established hallmarks in its pathogenesis. Recently, TFE3, a transcription factor, has emerged as a regulator of autophagy and metabolic processes. However, it remains unclear whether TFE3 can facilitate the degradation of α-Syn and regulate mitochondrial metabolism specifically in dopaminergic neurons. In this study, we demonstrate that TFE3 overexpression significantly mitigates the loss of dopaminergic neurons and reduces the decline in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fiber density, thereby restoring motor function in an α-Syn overexpression model of PD. Mechanistically, TFE3 overexpression reversed α-Syn-mediated impairment of autophagy, leading to enhanced α-Syn degradation and reduced aggregation. Additionally, TFE3 overexpression inhibited α-Syn propagation. TFE3 overexpression also reversed the down-regulation of Parkin, promoting the clearance of accumulated mitochondria, and restored the expression of PGC1-α and TFAM, thereby enhancing mitochondrial biogenesis in the adeno-associated virus-α-Syn model. These findings further underscore the neuroprotective role of TFE3 in PD and provide insights into its underlying mechanisms, suggesting TFE3 as a potential therapeutic target for PD.
Keywords: α-synuclein; Autophagy; Mitochondrial biogenesis; Mitophagy; Parkinson's disease; TFE3

Gizem Onal, Maria Claudia Caiazza, Parnaz Sharifi, Iona Thomas-Wright, Johanna L. Hoffmann, Rachel Heon-Roberts, Richard Wade-Martins,
Chapter 33 - Understanding human dopamine neuron biology in Parkinson's patient cells,
Editor(s): Stephanie J. Cragg, Mark E. Walton,
Handbook of Behavioral Neuroscience,
Elsevier,
Volume 32,
2025,
Pages 429-445,
ISSN 1569-7339,
ISBN 9780443298677,
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-443-29867-7.00031-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780443298677000311)
Abstract: Human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) technology has revolutionized Parkinson's disease (PD) research, offering opportunities for disease modeling, drug discovery, and personalized medicine. In this chapter, we summarize the impact of hiPSC-derived dopamine neurons (DaNs) on understanding various aspects of PD. This includes exploring PD dopamine neuron biology within the context of voltage-gated calcium channels and electrophysiology, emphasizing the role of calcium channels in neuronal vulnerability and in regulating dopamine release. We address findings related to α-synuclein pathology, highlighting its aggregation, secretion, and intracellular interactions. We also look into the details of the main PD pathology-related organelles: lysosomes, mitochondria, and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Lysosomal pathology is investigated, encompassing GBA1-related PD phenotypes, pH regulation, lysosomal calcium channels, and autophagy. Mitochondrial dysfunction is summarized in terms of bioenergetics, α-synuclein/mitochondria interplay, and the mitophagy pathway. We examine ER-related pathology through ER stress and calcium regulation, and the ER-mitochondria contact sites are discussed as a pivotal link between mitochondria and the ER. Finally, we provide a summary of the integration of CRISPR technology into hiPSC-PD research, with a specific focus on its potential in target identification, drug discovery, and therapeutic interventions for dopamine neuron pathology.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Stem cell technology; Gene editing; iPSC-derived dopamine neurons; α-Synuclein; Mitochondria; Lysosomes; Autophagy; Endoplasmic reticulum; Voltage-gated calcium channels

Diego L. Guarín, Joshua K. Wong, Nikolaus R. McFarland, Adolfo Ramirez-Zamora, David E. Vaillancourt,
What the trained eye cannot see: Quantitative kinematics and machine learning detect movement deficits in early-stage Parkinson's disease from videos,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 127,
2024,
107104,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107104.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024011167)
Abstract: Background
Evaluation of disease severity in Parkinson's disease (PD) relies on motor symptoms quantification. However, during early-stage PD, these symptoms are subtle and difficult to quantify by experts, which might result in delayed diagnosis and suboptimal disease management.
Objective
To evaluate the use of videos and machine learning (ML) for automatic quantification of motor symptoms in early-stage PD.
Methods
We analyzed videos of three movement tasks—Finger Tapping, Hand Movement, and Leg Agility— from 26 aged-matched healthy controls and 31 early-stage PD patients. Utilizing ML algorithms for pose estimation we extracted kinematic features from these videos and trained three classification models based on left and right-side movements, and right/left symmetry. The models were trained to differentiate healthy controls from early-stage PD from videos.
Results
Combining left side, right side, and symmetry features resulted in a PD detection accuracy of 79 % from Finger Tap videos, 75 % from Hand Movement videos, 79 % from Leg Agility videos, and 86 % when combining the three tasks using a soft voting approach. In contrast, the classification accuracy varied between 40 % and 72 % when the movement side or symmetry were not considered.
Conclusions
Our methodology effectively differentiated between early-stage PD and healthy controls using videos of standardized motor tasks by integrating kinematic analyses of left-side, right-side, and bilateral symmetry movements. These results demonstrate that ML can detect movement deficits in early-stage PD from videos. This technology is easy-to-use, highly scalable, and has the potential to improve the management and quantification of motor symptoms in early-stage PD.
Keywords: Parkinson disease; Digital health; Machine learning; Electronic data processing

Violetta Rozani, Miri Glikshtein Bezimianski, Joseph Azuri, Michal Bitan, Chava Peretz,
Anti-diabetic drug use and reduced risk of Parkinson's disease: A community-based cohort study,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 128,
2024,
107132,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107132.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024011441)
Abstract: Background
Emerging evidence suggests a potential association between certain anti-diabetic drugs and a reduced risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). Limited population-based studies have investigated users of newer anti-diabetic drugs such as GLP-1 agonists or SGLT2 inhibitors.
Objective
The aim of this study was to assess the risk of PD among individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) who were treated with various types of anti-diabetic drugs over time.
Methods
A population-based cohort comprising T2DM patients aged over 30 who used metformin, GLP-1 agonists, thiazolidinediones, sulfonylureas, DPP4 inhibitors, SGLT2 inhibitors, or meglitinides between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2018. Data were obtained between the diabetes registration and drug purchase databases of Maccabi Healthcare Services. Time-dependent Cox regression models, adjusted for sex, age, and comorbidities were employed to calculate the adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) for the PD risk associated with different anti-diabetic drugs over time.
Results
The study population comprised 86,229 T2DM patients, with 53.9 % males. The mean age at the first anti-diabetic drug purchase was 59.0 ± 11.0 and 62.0 ± 11.0 years for men and women respectively. Compared to metformin, several drug types were associated with a significantly lower PD risk: thiazolidinediones (HR = 0.91, 95 % CI:0.074–1.14); DPP4 inhibitors (HR = 0.60, 95 % CI:0.53–0.67); meglitinides (HR = 0.63, 95 % CI:0.53–0.74); GLP-1 agonists (HR = 0.54, 95 % CI:0.39–0.73); and SGLT2 inhibitors (HR = 0.15, 95 % CI:0.10–0.21).
Conclusions
Our results suggest a reduced risk of PD with certain anti-diabetic drugs, particularly SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP-1 agonists. Validation through extensive big-data studies is essential to confirm these results and to optimize PD prevention and management.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Type 2 diabetes mellitus; Anti-diabetic drugs; Community-based cohort study

Rabab Ali Abumalloh, Mehrbakhsh Nilashi, Sarminah Samad, Hossein Ahmadi, Abdullah Alghamdi, Mesfer Alrizq, Sultan Alyami,
Parkinson’s disease diagnosis using deep learning: A bibliometric analysis and literature review,
Ageing Research Reviews,
Volume 96,
2024,
102285,
ISSN 1568-1637,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2024.102285.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S156816372400103X)
Abstract: Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative illness triggered by decreased dopamine secretion. Deep Learning (DL) has gained substantial attention in PD diagnosis research, with an increase in the number of published papers in this discipline. PD detection using DL has presented more promising outcomes as compared with common machine learning approaches. This article aims to conduct a bibliometric analysis and a literature review focusing on the prominent developments taking place in this area. To achieve the target of the study, we retrieved and analyzed the available research papers in the Scopus database. Following that, we conducted a bibliometric analysis to inspect the structure of keywords, authors, and countries in the surveyed studies by providing visual representations of the bibliometric data using VOSviewer software. The study also provides an in-depth review of the literature focusing on different indicators of PD, deployed approaches, and performance metrics. The outcomes indicate the firm development of PD diagnosis using DL approaches over time and a large diversity of studies worldwide. Additionally, the literature review presented a research gap in DL approaches related to incremental learning, particularly in relation to big data analysis.
Keywords: Deep Learning; Big Data Analysis; Parkinson’s Disease; Bibliometric Analysis; Literature Review

L. Ramig, C. Fox,
O.032 Intensive voice treatment for Parkinson disease (LSVT LOUD): a neuroplasticity principled approach supported by technology,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 15, Supplement 2,
2009,
Page S9,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-8020(09)70047-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802009700471)

Wen-bin Teng, Hao-wei Deng, Bing-hua Lv, Shao-dan Zhou, Bin-ru Li, Rui-ting Hu,
Exploring and validating key genetic biomarkers for diagnosis of Parkinson's disease,
Brain Research Bulletin,
Volume 220,
2025,
111165,
ISSN 0361-9230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainresbull.2024.111165.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361923024002995)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurological condition characterized by complex genetic basic, and the reliable diagnosis of PD remained limited.
Objective
To identify genes crucial to PD and assess their potential as diagnostic markers.
Methods
Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened from the PD tissue dataset and blood dataset. Two machine learning methods were used to identify key PD-related genes. The genes were validated in an independent dataset. Further validation using 120 peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from PD patients. The clinical significance and the diagnostic value of the genes was determined. The function of genes was analyzed and verified by cells experiments.
Results
Thirteen common upregulated genes were identified between PD tissue dataset and blood dataset. Two machine learning methods identify three key PD-related genes (GPX2, CR1, ZNF556). An independent dataset and PBMCs samples results showed increased expression in PD patients. Clinical analysis showed that GPX2 and CR1 expression correlated with early-stage PD. The validated dataset of blood samples revealed each three gene showed moderate diagnostic potential for PD, with combined analysis outperforming individual gene analysis (AUC:0.701). The PBMCs samples showed similar diagnostic value of each gene, and the combination of the three genes presented better diagnostic value (AUC:0.801). Functional studies highlighted the involvement of these genes in key pathways in PD pathology. The results of SH-SY5Y cells showed that these three genes increased from PD cell model.
Conclusions
GPX2, CR1, ZNF556 were critical to the development of PD and might serve as diagnostic markers for PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Genetic markers; Diagnosis; Machine learning methods; Blood
