Qian-Kun He, Xue-Yong Wang, Wei Hu, Jing Cai, Peng Chen, Ming-Wei Liu, Yuan-Hua Wu,
Therapeutic potential of Canna edulis RS3-resistant starch in alleviating neuroinflammation and apoptosis in a Parkinson's disease rat model,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 18,
2024,
e38072,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38072.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024141035)
Abstract: This study aimed to investigate the effects of Miao medicinal Canna edulis RS3-resistant starch on behavioral performance and substantia nigra neuron apoptosis-related indicators in a rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Among the experimental groups, except for the control group, we induced PD rat models by subcutaneous injection of rotenone in the neck and back. After model induction, a 28-day drug intervention was conducted. Various techniques have been employed, including behavioral analysis, Real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), western blotting, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), immunofluorescence, and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated UTP nick-ends. labeling (TUNEL) and Nissl staining to investigate the effect of Canna edulis RS3-resistant starch on the substantia nigra and neuronal apoptosis-related markers in the brains of PD model rats. Our study revealed that Canna edulis RS3, a resistant starch, significantly reduced the climbing time of PD model rats, prolonged their hanging time, lowered the expression levels of the inflammatory factors IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α, increased the number of TH-positive neurons in the substantia nigra, and decreased the levels of IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α. Furthermore, Canna edulis RS3 elevated the protein expression levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and Bcl-2 while reducing those of Bax, TLR4, NLRP3,and p-P65, and mitigated apoptosis and morphological changes in dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra region. Our results suggest that Canna edulis RS3-resistant starch may offer therapeutic benefits for PD patients with PD by potentially influencing inflammation and apoptosis in the dopaminergic system.
Keywords: Canna edulis RS3-Resistant starch; Parkinson's disease; Substantianigra; Neurons; Neuroinflammation; Apoptosis

Xingyue Li, Xiaoyan Du, Rui Zhao, Hongheng Du, Libo Zhao,
Association between vestibular evoked myogenic potentials and different dizziness status in Parkinson's disease: A controlled study,
Clinical Neurology and Neurosurgery,
Volume 249,
2025,
108711,
ISSN 0303-8467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clineuro.2024.108711.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303846724005985)
Abstract: Objective
This study compared ocular and cervical vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (oVEMP and cVEMP) among individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) without dizziness, with nonspecific dizziness (dizziness without orthostatic hypotension), or with dizziness combined with orthostatic hypotension.
Materials and methods
We prospectively analyzed 30 of each of the three types of individuals who were admitted to Yongchuan Hospital of Chongqing Medical University (Chongqing, China) between June 2022 and April 2023. The three groups received oVEMP and cVEMP measurements using an electromyography-evoked potential system. For oVEMP, the N10 latency, P16 latency, and amplitude were compared between the three groups and the reference values. For cVEMP, the P13 latency, N23 latency, and amplitude were compared between the three groups and the reference values. Overall characteristics of oVEMP and cVEMP were also assessed using a previously published scoring scale originally developed for individuals with multiple sclerosis between the three groups included. The correlation between VEMP parameters (the latency and amplitude) and VEMP scores were simultaneously analyzed using Pearson’s bivariate correlation analysis.
Results
When compared with reference values, the oVEMP and cVEMP parameters of all three groups were found to be slightly different from the reference values. When the three groups included were compared with each other, in terms of oVEMP, the average amplitude in the left eye was significantly higher in those with nonspecific dizziness than in the other two groups. In terms of cVEMP, the average N23 latency on both the right and left sides of the neck and average amplitude on the right side of the neck were significantly higher in those with nonspecific dizziness than in the other two groups. Scores for oVEMP and cVEMP were also significantly higher for those with nonspecific dizziness than for the other two groups. There were no significant differences in oVEMP and cVEMP parameters, and scores for oVEMP and cVEMP between patients with dizziness combined with orthostatic hypotension and those without dizziness. In terms of correlation analysis, the N23 latency of left neck (r = 0.509, p < 0.001), the N23 latency of right neck (r = 0.495, p < 0.001), and the amplitude of right neck (r = 0.304, p = 0.004) correlated positively with cVEMP score.
Conclusions
Patients with PD without dizziness, with dizziness attributable to orthostatic hypotension, and with nonspecific dizziness may be all associated with vestibular dysfunction. The VEMP scores were highest in patients with nonspecific dizziness, so vestibular function is more severely affected in patients with nonspecific dizziness. The VEMP especially cVEMP may be useful for early diagnosis of nonspecific dizziness in PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Nonspecific dizziness; Orthostatic hypotension; Vestibular function; Vestibular evoked myogenic potentials

Shanshan Li, Meng Wang, Buyun Jia, Baikun Li, Hui Cheng, Shasha Tian, Qinglin Li,
Neuroprotective effects of gastrodin in both in vivo and in vitro models of Parkinson's disease: Mechanisms from the perspective of oxidative stress, ferroptosis, and cellular senescence,
Journal of Functional Foods,
Volume 125,
2025,
106682,
ISSN 1756-4646,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jff.2025.106682.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1756464625000246)
Abstract: Aims
To investigate the effect of GAS in PD models by regulating ferroptosis and cell senescence.
Methods
MPTP or MPP+ was used to establish PD models in vivo or in vitro, and the effect of GAS was detected by behavioral analysis, immunohistochemistry and cell viability. At the same time, transmission electron microscopy, biochemical kits, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and molecular docking were used.
Results
We found that gastrodin could inhibit cell senescence in PD models. In addition, GAS was found to inhibit ferroptosis, regulate oxidative stress level, and level of ACSL4, FTH1, SLC7A11, GPX4. We also found that Ferrostatin-1 and GAS could inhibit cell senescence. The results of molecular docking and immunofluorescence showed that p53 may be an important target of GAS. After treatment with Pifithrin-α, the protective effect of GAS was enhanced.
Conclusion
GAS inhibits cellular senescence in PD models and treats PD through a novel mechanism related to ferroptosis.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Ferroptosis; Cell senescence; Gastrodin


Key Filters merges with Parkinson Technologies,
Filtration & Separation,
Volume 47, Issue 2,
2010,
Page 7,
ISSN 0015-1882,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0015-1882(10)70055-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0015188210700550)

Shawki Saleh, Zakaria Alouani, Othmane Daanouni, Soufiane Hamida, Bouchaib Cherradi, Omar Bouattane,
AIoT-based embedded systems optimization using feature selection for Parkinson's disease diagnosis through speech disorders,
Intelligence-Based Medicine,
Volume 10,
2024,
100184,
ISSN 2666-5212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibmed.2024.100184.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666521224000516)
Abstract: This study aims to build a pre-diagnosis tool for predicting Parkinson's disease based on a speech disorder which appears as a symptom in approximately 90 % of people with this disease. Recently, some technologies such as AIoT and IoMT aim to integrate Artificial Intelligence and the Internet of Things or Internet of Medical Things to provide an intelligent remote diagnosis for enhancing medical services. Thus, the classification speed and reliability of the systems in these fields are highly recommended. In this work, we compared five ML algorithms (LR, RF, XGB, SVM, KNN) based on their performance, classification speed and reliability. We employed the sequential forward feature selection in order to select the optimal relevant feature for reducing the dimensionality of the used acoustic dataset to enhance both the performance and computation cost for the proposed system. Furthermore, the stratified cross-validation approach has been used to obtain a fair estimation for the proposed system across each point in the dataset. In this paper, we used a vocal dataset of Parkinson's disease consisting of 195 samples and 22 features. We found that 10 features provide the optimal performance. So, we proposed the K-Nearest Neighbours algorithm as a classifier for our system. It reached 98.46 %, 99.33 % and 98.67 % of the accuracy, sensitivity and precision respectively. Moreover, this work provides a detailed explanation of the employed techniques and the obtained results. The novelty of this work, compared to the existing literature, is to enhance both computation cost and performance for building a real-world system to diagnose Parkinson's disease through speech disorder.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; AIoT; Healthcare embedded systems; Speech disorder; Forward feature selection

Zhongwei Huang, Jianqiang Li, Jiatao Yang, Jun Wan, Jianxia Chen, Zhi Yang, Ming Shi, Ran Zhou, Haitao Gan,
Adaptive feature selection with flexible mapping for diagnosis and prediction of Parkinson's disease,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 146,
2025,
110342,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2025.110342.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197625003422)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder in which symptoms gradually worsen over time, with no cure currently available. Therefore, its early-stage treatment is crucial. However, medical neuroimaging data often contain redundant features and high dimensionality, which can negatively impact algorithm accuracy and require greater computational resources. To address this challenge, a supervised feature selection algorithm is proposed for the early diagnosis of PD. Specifically, the proposed method incorporates adaptive learning during iterations, which enables adaptive updating of the similarity matrix and selection of informative features. Meanwhile, flexible mapping is introduced to address the limitations of strict linear mapping. To address the optimization challenge of the model, we propose an alternative iterative algorithm and provide theoretical proof of its strict convergence. To measure the effectiveness of the algorithm, we conducted experiments on the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) public dataset, involving three groups: PD vs. normal controls (NC), scans without evidence of dopaminergic deficit (SWEDD) vs. NC, and PD vs. SWEDD. Based on baseline data, the accuracies for these three groups were 83.29%, 87.67%, and 85.16%, respectively. Using the 12-month data, the accuracies improved to 79.70%, 96.79%, and 96.95%, while the 24-month data resulted in accuracies of 91.33%, 70.10%, and 93.36%. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms existing feature selection methods in overall performance.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Feature selection; Similarity learning; Diagnosis; Prediction

Cheng-Wei Huang, Hsin-Yun Tsai, Yi-Hsuan Lin, Wen-Wei Lin, Chin-Hsien Lin, Ming-Tsung Tseng,
Striatal-cortical dysconnectivity underlies somatosensory deficits in Parkinson's disease: Insights from rhythmic auditory-motor training,
Neurobiology of Disease,
Volume 204,
2025,
106778,
ISSN 0969-9961,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2024.106778.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969996124003802)
Abstract: Evidence indicates that neurodegenerative diseases spread through distinct brain networks. For Parkinson's disease (PD), somatosensory abnormalities may accompany motor dysfunction in early disease stages when dopaminergic degeneration is limited to the basal ganglia. It remains unclear whether, based on the network-spread account, these abnormalities emanated from aberrant functional connectivity with the basal ganglia, and whether interventions normalizing this connectivity could reverse these abnormalities. Here, we employed functional MRI to record brain responses to tactile stimuli in patients with idiopathic PD and healthy controls before and after three-week rhythmic auditory stimulation-assisted gait (RASg) training. Consistent with the presence of striatal degeneration, patients showed right posterior putamen (pPut) hypoactivation when detecting tactile stimuli of their left leg. They also exhibited reduced functional connectivity from the right pPut to the right parietal somatosensory region (inferior parietal lobule, IPL), whose hypoactivation reflected patients' impaired tactile detectability. Importantly, this dysconnectivity predicted right IPL hypoactivation, indicating that pPut-IPL dysconnectivity underlay patients' impaired tactile detectability. Intriguingly, RASg training normalized patients' tactile detectability, which was mirrored by normalization of right IPL activation and pPut-IPL connectivity. Training-induced changes in pPut-IPL connectivity predicted changes in IPL activation during tactile detection, reinforcing the role of pPut-IPL connectivity in patients' tactile detectability. These findings suggest that somatosensory abnormalities in PD may arise from the spread of striatal pathology to relevant cortical regions. Rhythmic auditory-motor training acts to recover striatal connectivity, improving PD patients' somatosensory deficits.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; fMRI; Tactile detection; Music-based interventions; Auditorymotor entrainment; Inferior parietal lobule

Ritu Soni, Vaishali Pankaj, Sudeep Roy, Amit Khairnar, Jigna Shah,
Upregulation of the PI3K/AKT and Nrf2 Pathways by the DPP‑4 Inhibitor Sitagliptin Renders Neuroprotection in Chemically Induced Parkinson’s Disease Mouse Models,
ACS Chemical Neuroscience,
Volume 16, Issue 7,
2025,
Pages 1402-1417,
ISSN 1948-7193,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00112.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1948719325001008)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is one of the most common progressive neurodegenerative pathologies that leads to dopaminergic deficiency and motor manifestations. Alpha-synuclein aggregation is a characteristic hallmark of PD pathogenesis. These aggregates facilitate the formation of Lewy bodies and degeneration. The epidemiological evidence demonstrates a definitive association of diabetes with PD risk. Considering this, many antidiabetic agents such as GLP-1 agonists and DPP-4 inhibitors are being explored as alternative PD therapeutics. This study evaluated the neuroprotective effect of the DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin mediated by the PI3K/AKT and Nrf2 pathways in PD models. In silico studies were conducted to determine the binding affinity, stability, and ADMET properties of DPP-4 inhibitors with target proteins. Sitagliptin (15 mg/kg p.o.) was administered in rotenone (30 mg/kg p.o. for 28 days)-induced and MPTP/P (25 mg/kg i.p. MPTP and 100 mg/kg probenecid i.p. twice a week for 5 weeks)-induced PD mouse (C57/BL6) models. Neurobehavioral assessments were carried out throughout the study. Biochemical (GSH, MDA), molecular estimations (AKT, Nrf2, PI3K, GSK-3β, GLP1, CREB, BDNF, NF-κB, alpha-synuclein), histopathological studies, and immunohistochemistry were carried out at the end of the study. The in silico studies demonstrate better binding, stability, and ADMET profile of sitagliptin with both target proteins. Sitagliptin restored cognitive and motor deficits in both rotenone- and MPTP/P-induced mouse models. There was upregulation of PI3K, AKT, Nrf2, CREB, and BDNF levels and downregulation of GSK-3β, NF-κB, and alpha-synuclein levels in both models after treatment with sitagliptin. However, GLP1 levels were not significantly restored, indicating a GLP1-independent mechanism. It also restored histopathological alterations and TH+ neuronal loss induced by rotenone and MPTP/P. These findings demonstrate that sitagliptin exhibits neuroprotective action mediated by upregulation of the PI3K/AKT and Nrf2 pathways in rotenone and MPTP/P mouse models of PD.

Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; DPP-4 inhibitors; sitagliptin; PI3K/AKT; Nrf2; alpha-synuclein

Hina Shaheen, Roderick Melnik,
Bayesian approaches for revealing complex neural network dynamics in Parkinson’s disease,
Journal of Computational Science,
Volume 85,
2025,
102525,
ISSN 1877-7503,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2025.102525.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187775032500002X)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) belongs to the class of neurodegenerative disorders that affect the central nervous system. It is usually defined as the gradual loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, which causes both motor and non-motor symptoms. Understanding the neuronal processes that underlie PD is critical for creating successful therapies. This study combines machine learning (ML), stochastic modelling, and Bayesian inference with connectomic data to analyse the brain networks involved in PD. We use modern computational methods to study large-scale neural networks to identify neuronal activity patterns related to PD development. We aim to define the subtle structural and functional connection changes in PD brains by combining connectomic with stochastic noises. Stochastic modelling approaches reflect brain dynamics’ intrinsic variability and unpredictability, shedding light on the origin and spread of pathogenic events in PD. We employ a novel hybrid model to assess how stochastic noise impacts the cortex-basal ganglia-thalamus (CBGTH) network, using data from the Human Connectome Project (HCP). Bayesian inference allows us to quantify uncertainty in model parameters, improving the accuracy of our predictions. Our findings reveal that stochastic disturbances increase thalamus activity, even under deep brain stimulation (DBS). Bayesian analysis suggests that reducing these disturbances could enhance healthy brain states, providing insights for potential therapeutic interventions. This approach offers a deeper understanding of PD dynamics and paves the way for personalized treatment strategies. This is an extended version of our work presented at the ICCS-2024 conference (Shaheen and Melnik, 2024)[1].
Keywords: Brain networks; Machine learning; Laplacian operator; Neural dynamics; Wiener process; Neurodegenerative disorders; Data-driven methods; Approximate Bayesian computation technique; Parameter estimation; Markov Chain Monte Carlo method; Posterior distributions

Kjersti Eline Stige, Simon Ulvenes Kverneng, Soumya Sharma, Geir-Olve Skeie, Erika Sheard, Mona Søgnen, Solveig Af Geijerstam, Therese Vetås, Anne Grete Wahlvåg, Haakon Berven, Sagar Buch, David Reese, Dina Babiker, Yekta Mahdi, Trevor Wade, Gala Prado Miranda, Jacky Ganguly, Yokhesh Krishnasamy Tamilselvam, Jia Ren Chai, Saurabh Bansal, Dorian Aur, Sima Soltani, Scott Adams, Christian Dölle, Fiona Dick, Erik Magnus Berntsen, Renate Grüner, Njål Brekke, Frank Riemer, Pål Erik Goa, Kristoffer Haugarvoll, E. Mark Haacke, Mandar Jog, Charalampos Tzoulis,
The STRAT-PARK cohort: A personalized initiative to stratify Parkinson’s disease,
Progress in Neurobiology,
Volume 236,
2024,
102603,
ISSN 0301-0082,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pneurobio.2024.102603.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030100822400039X)
Abstract: The STRAT-PARK initiative aims to provide a platform for stratifying Parkinson’s disease (PD) into biological subtypes, using a bottom-up, multidisciplinary biomarker-based and data-driven approach. PD is a heterogeneous entity, exhibiting high interindividual clinicopathological variability. This diversity suggests that PD may encompass multiple distinct biological entities, each driven by different molecular mechanisms. Molecular stratification and identification of disease subtypes is therefore a key priority for understanding and treating PD. STRAT-PARK is a multi-center longitudinal cohort aiming to recruit a total of 2000 individuals with PD and neurologically healthy controls from Norway and Canada, for the purpose of identifying molecular disease subtypes. Clinical assessment is performed annually, whereas biosampling, imaging, and digital and neurophysiological phenotyping occur every second year. The unique feature of STRAT-PARK is the diversity of collected biological material, including muscle biopsies and platelets, tissues particularly useful for mitochondrial biomarker research. Recruitment rate is ∼150 participants per year. By March 2023, 252 participants were included, comprising 204 cases and 48 controls. STRAT-PARK is a powerful stratification initiative anticipated to become a global research resource, contributing to personalized care in PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; mitochondria; stratification; subtypes; progression

Xin Wang, Lizhou Fan, Haiyun Li, Xiaochan Bi, Wenjing Jiang, Xin Ma,
Skip-AttSeqNet: Leveraging skip connection and attention-driven Seq2seq model to enhance eye movement event detection in Parkinson’s disease,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 99,
2025,
106862,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2024.106862.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809424009200)
Abstract: To address the limitations of traditional algorithms in detecting eye movement events, particularly in Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients, this study introduces Skip-AttSeqNet. It presents an innovative approach combining skip-connected, one-dimensional convolutional neural networks with an attention-enhanced, bidirectional long short-term memory network. This hybrid architecture significantly advances smooth pursuit (SP) event detection, as evidenced by its performance on both the GazeCom dataset and a unique dataset of PD patient eye movements. Key innovations in this work include the utilization of skip connections and attention mechanisms, along with optimized training–validation set division, collectively enhancing the model’s accuracy while mitigating overfitting. Skip-AttSeqNet outperforms existing algorithms, achieving a 3.2% higher sample-level F1 score and a notable 6.2% increase in event-level F1 scores for SP detection. Furthermore, we established a smooth-pursuit experimental paradigm and identified significant differences in saccade and SP features between PD patients and healthy older adults through statistical analysis using the Mann–Whitney test. These findings underscore the potential of eye movement metrics as biomarkers for PD, thereby not only strengthening PD diagnosis but also enriching the intersection of computer vision and biomedical research domains.
Keywords: Eye movement event detection; Time-wise splitting strategy; Parkinson’s disease; Attention model; Skip connection

Adarsh Kesharwani, Siva Prasad Panda,
Trans-zeatin and its derivatives: Cytokinins present in various TCM preparations as promising candidate moclecules for the management of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease,
Pharmacological Research - Modern Chinese Medicine,
Volume 12,
2024,
100487,
ISSN 2667-1425,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prmcm.2024.100487.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667142524001295)
Abstract: Introduction
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), characterized by their progressive nature and debilitating impact on individuals' cognitive and motor functions, pose a significant challenge to public health. Despite extensive research efforts, the severity of cognitive dysfunction remains formidable, with gaps persisting in understanding its underlying mechanisms and developing effective therapeutic interventions. Natural phytohormones have emerged as promising candidates for managing neurodegenerative diseases, offering potential avenues for therapeutic intervention. The phytohormone trans-zeatin (tZ) is a derivative of the cytokinin zeatin (6-isopentenylaminopurine). tZ derivatives such as N6-isopentyl adenosine (iPR), t-zeatin riboside (tZR), kinetin (K), and kinetin riboside (KR) are the active components available in coconut water and are also isolated from many plant extracts that aid in plant growth.
Methods
We searched the various online databases (Pub-Med, WOS, and Google Scholar) for the last twenty years using keywords such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, phytohormones, trans-zeatin, and cytokinins, paired with traditional Chinese plants. This literature review sought to illuminate the therapeutic role of cytokinins in AD and PD. In addition, this article talked about the biological importance of cytokinins to understand how trans-zeatin and its derivatives, which are cytokinins, protect neurons. We searched and screened 75 articles. Results were summarized, compared, and research gaps identified throughout the data collection and interpretation.
Results
TZ and its derivatives have garnered attention for their notable biological activities such as antioxidant, anti-aging, cytoprotective, anti-inflammatory, and particularly their anti-Alzheimer and anti-Parkinson effects. tZ may be useful as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease because it stops cholinesterase from working, stops amyloid beta (Aβ) from clumping together, and changes the Nrf2/ARE pathway. In Parkinson's disease (PD), tZ prevents the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons by lowering JNK/P38 phosphorylation, moderating Bax-mediated apoptosis, and blocking caspase 3/7 activation.
Discussion and conclusion
Dietary foods could incorporate trans-zeatin, derived from coconut (Cocos nucifera) and other natural sources, to provide a variety of health benefits. Because they can change important cellular pathways like Nrf2, NF-κB, and PI3K/Akt, they may be able to protect neurons from damage and slow down its growth. By evaluating trans-zeatin's efficacy in preclinical and clinical studies, it holds the promise of becoming a valuable therapeutic agent for combating neurodegeneration in AD and PD.
Keywords: Trans-zeatin; tZ derivatives; Aβ; Nrf2/ARE pathway; Alzheimer's disease; Parkinson's disease

Yao Si, Shi Yan, Xueying Li, Wencai Ding, Xinyu Zhang, Kejuan Jia, Lifen Yao, Fan Yang, Wanying Shi,
P2X7R activation promotes ferroptosis in dopaminergic neurons via NF-κB signaling pathway in vitro and in vivo models of MPP+/MPTP-induced Parkinson’s disease,
Brain Research,
Volume 1865,
2025,
149824,
ISSN 0006-8993,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149824.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899325003853)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons (DNs). The role of purinergic receptor P2X ligand-gated ion channel 7 (P2X7R) in mediating neuroinflammation and cell death in PD has attracted increasing research attention. Therefore, we conducted studies in the MPP+-induced PD cellular model and the MPTP-induced PD animal model to assess P2X7R regulates ferroptosis through the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling pathway and thereby affects the PD process. This involved assessing changes in mRNA and protein levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), Fe2+, glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1), and heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) levels. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), reduced glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) were detected to evaluate oxidative stress levels. Additionally, activation of NF-κB signaling pathway was determined by evaluating p65 phosphorylation levels. The study shows P2X7R suppression can increase the levels of GPX4 and FTH1 and decrease the levels of HO-1 and Fe2+ content, preventing the loss of DNs in the SN and ameliorating motor symptoms in PD mice. In addition, the levels of SOD and GSH increased, and the level of MDA decreased. Additionally, the silencing of P2X7R led to reduced NF-κB p65 phosphorylation, which subsequently decreased lipid peroxidation. However, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), an activator of the NF-κB pathway, reversed the effect of P2X7R inhibition. These findings suggest that P2X7R activation promotes the transcription of genes associated with ferroptosis via the NF-κB pathway. This study highlights the importance of P2X7R in the regulation of ferroptosis, suggesting potential therapeutic targets for suppressing both ferroptosis and PD.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; P2X7R; Ferroptosis; Dopaminergic neuron; Oxidative stress

Jiao Meng, Xin Huo, Hui Zhao, Guojiang Zhang, Liming Zhang, Xun Wang, Jinghan Lin, Shanshan Zhou,
Multi-modal biological feature selection for Parkinson’s disease staging based on binary PSO with broad learning,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 94,
2024,
106234,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2024.106234.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809424002921)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease is a nerve system disease that seriously affects the patients’ quality of life. Parkinson’s disease staging can be realized based on intelligent methods according to the extent of disease, and the search for appropriate biomarkers is beneficial to patients’ management and treatment and relieves medical pressure greatly. Parkinson’s disease is often accompanied by a variety of motor and non-motor symptoms, so for one patient, multiple biological signals can be collected from which multiple features can be extracted using various methods. These biological signals and features have multiple modalities. In this context, this article obtains multi-modal biological signals by some measuring devices, and proposes multi-modal biological feature selection based on multi-modal binary particle swarm optimization (MM-BPSO) with multi-modal broad learning (MM-BL) to realize Parkinson’s disease staging. The MM-BPSO combines classification metrics with importance and correlation of features, holds the independence and achieves complementarity of different modal features, and provides a reference for clinical biomarkers. The MM-BL consists of multiple sub-broad learning structures and softmax layers, ensuring that the predictions of each modality for all classes are fully considered, which reflects the severity of multiple symptoms. Experiments are carried out on the collected multi-modal Parkinson’s motor symptom datasets, the results indicate that multi-modal classification of the selected biological feature subsets has a better performance than other methods.
Keywords: Multi-modal biological signals; Binary particle swarm optimization; Broad learning; Multi-modal feature selection; Parkinson’s disease staging

Zimeng Li, Hongyan Li,
Neuroprotective effect of echinoside on MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease mouse model by activation of NRF2/HO-1 pathway,
Pharmacological Research - Modern Chinese Medicine,
Volume 13,
2024,
100525,
ISSN 2667-1425,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prmcm.2024.100525.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667142524001672)
Abstract: Echinacoside, a principal active compound derived from Cistanche deserticola Ma, is recognized in traditional Chinese medicine for its anti-aging, immunomodulatory, endocrine-regulating, and neuroprotective properties. However, the specific neuroprotective mechanisms of echinacoside remain largely unclear. This study aims to investigate whether the neuroprotective effects of echinacoside in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD) are mediated through the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway by mitigating inflammatory responses. Mice were divided into four groups: control, model, positive control, and echinacoside-treated groups. PD mouse model was induced through intraperitoneal injection of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) over the course of one week, followed by three weeks of oral administration of echinacoside. The results demonstrated that echinacoside significantly improved motor function impairments caused by MPTP in PD mice. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that echinacoside enhanced the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in the substantia nigra of PD mice. Furthermore, assays of inflammatory cytokines indicated that echinacoside effectively reduced the levels of IL-6 and TNF-α in brain tissues. Western blot analysis further confirmed that echinacoside intervention upregulated the expression of Nrf2 and HO-1 in the brain tissues of PD mice. These findings suggest that echinacoside exerts neuroprotective effects in the PD mouse model, likely through the activation of the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway. Therefore, echinacoside may be considered a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of PD.
Keywords: Traditional Chinese medicine components; Echinacoside; Parkinson's disease mouse model

Hassan Muhammad Yankuzo, Ismail Sulaiman, Suleiman Alhaji Muhammad, Abdullahi Abdullahi Raji, Yaaqub Abiodun Uthman, Mustapha Umar Imam,
Brown rice attenuates iron-induced Parkinson’s disease phenotypes in male wild-type drosophila: insights into antioxidant and iron metabolism modulation,
Applied Physiology Nutrition and Metabolism,
Volume 50,
2025,
Pages 1-13,
ISSN 1715-5312,
https://doi.org/10.1139/apnm-2024-0110.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1715531224000991)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a progressive movement disorder associated with brain iron (Fe) accumulation and free radicals. Brown rice (BR) is antioxidant-rich and has been shown to ameliorate oxidative stress-induced damage. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of BR compared to white rice (WR) on Fe-induced PD in a fruit fly model. Three-day-old male adult flies were divided into two groups: one on a normal diet and the other on Fe-diet (1 mmol/L) for 10 days to induce PD. After 10 days, the Fe-fed flies were redistributed into four groups: one on normal diet (Fe group), while the others were treated with BR (Fe + BR group), WR (Fe + WR group), or L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) (Fe + L-dopa group) for 5 days. Similarly, the flies initially on a normal diet were separated into four groups: one on normal diet (Control group), while the others were treated with BR (BR group), WR (WR group), or L-dopa (L-dopa group) for 5 days. Finally, Fe levels, dopamine, malonaldehyde (MDA), and antioxidant enzymes were measured, and the mRNA levels of antioxidant and Fe metabolism genes were assessed. BR significantly improved motor and cognitive functions, decreased fly head MDA and Fe levels, and increased antioxidant enzyme levels in comparison to the Fe and WR groups. Similarly, BR upregulated the mRNA levels of antioxidant genes: catalase, GPx, Nrf2, and DJ-1. The results suggest that BR could potentially reduce morbidities associated with PD possibly due to its bioactive compounds compared to WR.
Keywords: brown rice; ferric iron; L-dopa; Parkinsons’ disease; white rice

Anouk Wolters, Yasin Temel, Hans Clusmann, Sarah-Anna Hescham,
Exploring the cognitive implications of traditional and novel subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation paradigms in Parkinson’s disease,
Deep Brain Stimulation,
Volume 6,
2024,
Pages 9-18,
ISSN 2949-6691,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdbs.2024.07.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2949669124000095)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder primarily affecting the motor system. However, it is also accompanied by significant non-motor symptoms such as sleep disturbances, cognitive impairment, and mood disorders. While dopaminergic deficits in the substantia nigra pars compacta are linked to motor symptoms, cognitive decline and non-motor symptoms may involve other neurotransmitter systems, including cholinergic pathways. This review investigates the cognitive implications of traditional and novel subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) paradigms in PD. Recognising the growing significance of cognitive function in the management of PD, our study aims to analyse comprehensively how different DBS approaches impact cognitive outcomes. By reviewing existing literature, we examine the cognitive domains of PD patients undergoing traditional STN DBS and explore the effects of novel stimulation paradigms. The findings from these studies may enhance our understanding of the cognitive consequences associated with STN DBS and inform therapeutic strategies to optimize patient outcomes in PD management.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; DBS; Cognition; Brain oscillations

Venkata Dileep Kumar Veldi, Rachana Mehta, Ranjana Sah,
Commentary on “Predictors of outcomes in people with Parkinson's disease admitted to a large UK teaching hospital”,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 138,
2025,
107836,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107836.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025005772)
Keywords: Parkinson's disease hospital outcomes; Readmission rates; Diagnostic coding accuracy; Care transitions; Health services research in PD

Kina Lee, Hee Jeong Kim, Jeong Eun Kim, K.C. Elina, Sangjune Kim, Young Seok Park, Hyong Kyu Kim,
Combination treatment with rapamycin and glucocorticoid protects the death of mesostriatal dopaminergic neurons in animal model of Parkinson's disease,
Pharmacology Biochemistry and Behavior,
Volume 248,
2025,
173966,
ISSN 0091-3057,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pbb.2025.173966.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0091305725000139)
Abstract: Glucocorticoids have been used to treat inflammatory diseases because of their potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive actions. However, chronic use of high levels of glucocorticoids causes several adverse effects, limiting their clinical utility. Here, we explored the therapeutic potential of a combination treatment involving reduced concentrations of rapamycin, an autophagy activator and immunosuppressant, and glucocorticoids in an animal model of Parkinson's disease (PD). In vitro experiments with the SH-SY5Y cell line revealed that 10 μM rapamycin significantly increased the survival rate of cells treated with 6-hydroxydopamine to induce cell death, while both dexamethasone and prednisone at 50 μM exhibited an evident increase in survival rates. The combination treatment with reduced concentrations (rapamycin: 5 μM, dexamethasone: 25 μM) showed a more effective recovery in survival than singular treatments with high concentrations of rapamycin, prednisone, or dexamethasone. Propidium iodide–staining confirmed the efficacy of the combination treatment. This treatment did not significantly alter forkhead box O3a (FOXO3a)–triggered apoptosis and autophagic flux but upregulated the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein B-cell lymphoma 2, while B-cell lymphoma–extra-large showed no significant change. In vivo experiments using a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)–induced PD animal model revealed that the combination treatment effectively mitigated defects in motor function. The combination treatment completely blocked the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)–positive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and partially prevented the reduction of TH-positive fibers in the striatum caused by the MPTP treatment. It also reduced the microglial levels caused by the MPTP treatment. Although not significant, it demonstrated an increase in survival rates of MPTP-induced PD model mice. In conclusion, the combination treatment with reduced concentrations of rapamycin and glucocorticoids may serve as potential therapy for PD, albeit further research and clinical trials are warranted to validate its efficacy and safety.
Keywords: Combination treatment; Rapamycin; Dexamethasone; Dopaminergic neuron; Autophagy; Apoptosis

Hossein Ahmadi, Lin Huo, Goli Arji, Abbas Sheikhtaheri, Shang-Ming Zhou,
Early diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease using a hybrid method of least squares support vector regression and fuzzy clustering,
Biocybernetics and Biomedical Engineering,
Volume 44, Issue 3,
2024,
Pages 569-585,
ISSN 0208-5216,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbe.2024.08.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0208521624000627)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that influence brain’s neurological, behavioral, and physiological functions and includes motor and nonmotor manifestations. Although there have been several PD diagnosis systems with supervised machine learning techniques, there are more efforts that need to enhance the accurate detection of PD in its early stage. The current paper developed a novel approach by integrating Least Squares Support Vector Regression (LS-SVR) and Fuzzy Clustering for Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) diagnosis. This paper used feature selection and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to overcome the multicollinearity issues in data. This paper used a large medical dataset including Motor- and Total-UPDRS to demonstrate how the proposed method can improve prediction performance via extensive evaluations and comparisons with existing methods. Compared to other prediction methods, the experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method provided the best accuracy for Total-UPDRS (Root Mean Squared Error = 0.7348; R2 = 0.9169) and Motor-UPDRS (Root Mean Squared Error = 0.8321; R2 = 0.8756) predictions.
Keywords: Early diagnosis; Parkinson disease; Support vector regression; Fuzzy clustering; Machine learning

Zhengyu Li, Xin Chen, Wenwen Xiang, Ting Tang, Li Gan,
m6A Demethylase FTO-Mediated Upregulation of BAP1 Induces Neuronal Ferroptosis via the p53/SLC7A11 Axis in the MPP+/MPTP-Induced Parkinson’s Disease Model,
ACS Chemical Neuroscience,
2025,
,
ISSN 1948-7193,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00620.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1948719325000283)
Abstract: Background: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the involvement of ferroptosis in its pathological mechanism. In this study, the effects and mechanism of BRCA1-associated protein 1 (BAP1) on neuronal ferroptosis in PD were evaluated. Methods: A PD mouse model was constructed by injecting mice with MPTP. Nissl staining, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and Prussian blue staining evaluated histopathology and iron distribution. The PD cell model was constructed by subjecting SK-N-SH cells to MPP+. The m6A level of BAP1 was assessed by MeRIP. mRNA levels of BAP1, FTO, IGF2BP1, METTL3, YTHDF2, and SLC7A11 were evaluated utilizing RT-qPCR. Protein levels of BAP1, FTO, IGF2BP1, METTL3, YTHDF2, SLC7A11, and p53 were measured by Western blot. Cell viability was assessed using CCK-8 assay, and TUNEL was used for assessing apoptosis. The levels of MDA, GSH, SOD, and Fe2+ were also measured. The interactions among molecules were verified using RIP assay, dual luciferase reporter assay, and ChIP assay. Results: SK-N-SH cells treated with MPP+ showed a decrease in overall m6A levels of BAP1. FTO facilitated m6A demethylation of BAP1, leading to an increased level of expression of BAP1. m6A-binding protein, YTHDF2 recognized and decayed methylated mRNA of BAP1, leading to the reduced BAP1 stability. The FTO/BAP1 axis promoted MPP+-induced ferroptosis by suppressing SLC7A11. BAP1, in collaboration with p53, reduced the level of expression of SLC7A11. Knocking down BAP1 mitigated ferroptosis in an MPTP mouse model. Conclusion: m6A-mediated modification of BAP1 regulates neuronal ferroptosis by cooperating with p53 to decrease the level of SLC7A11. Thus, BAP1 may be a potential therapeutic target for PD treatment.

Keywords: BAP1; FTO; neuronal ferroptosis; p53; Parkinson’s disease; SLC7A11; YTHDF2

Yuqiao Zhang, Yan Li, Chunxin Lai, Xinhao Wang, Fulong Luo, Yongyi Niu, Yongjie Qin, Yuhu Zhang, Hongyang Zhang,
Interocular asymmetry of retinal change in Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 125,
2024,
107037,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107037.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024010496)
Abstract: Purpose
To investigate interocular asymmetry (IA) of retinal structure and vessel density in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and normal controls (NC).
Methods
Seventy-eight subjects including 40 PD patients and 38 NC had completed optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) and neurological examinations for three rating scales (UPDRS-III, MMSE and MoCA). The IA was calculated by the absolute value of difference in right and left eyes. The IA of thickness in macular ganglion cell inner-plexiform layer (GCIPL), peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (pRNFL), and vessel density of superficial capillary plexus (SCP), deep capillary plexus (DCP), radial peripapillary capillary (RPC) were obtained from OCTA.
Results
The motor-symptom-onset side of eyes showed lower vessel density in parafovea of SCP (51.09 ± 3.46 vs 49.81 ± 4.16, P = 0.03) and superior hemi of perifovea DCP (49.55 ± 5.81 vs 47.33 ± 5.71, = 0.04). The PD patients showed larger IA in thickness of superior half of pRNFL (5.27 [2.67, 10.87] vs 3.08 [1.62, 5.61], P = 0.02) and parafovea GCIPL (2.40[1.25, 6.35] vs 1.40[0.50, 2.45], P = 0.02). No significant interocular asymmetry was found in vessel density between PD and NC. A higher UPDRS-III scale was associated with larger IA in GCIPL (β = 0.093, P = 0.001) and smaller IA in DCP (β = −0.065, P = 0.037).
Conclusion
The motor-symptom-onset side of eyes showed more severe loss of macular vessel density than the other side of eyes. The PD patients showed asymmetrical structural change in GCIPL and pRNFL, which showed the potential as the diagnostic biomarker for PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Asymmetry; Optical coherence tomography angiography

L. Vásquez-Celaya, G. Marín, M.E. Hernández, P. Carrillo, C.A. Pérez, G.A. Coria-Avila, J. Manzo, M. Miquel, L.I. García,
Functional correlation between cerebellum and basal ganglia: A parkinsonism model,
Neurología (English Edition),
Volume 39, Issue 7,
2024,
Pages 555-563,
ISSN 2173-5808,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nrleng.2024.07.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2173580824000658)
Abstract: Introduction
The cerebellar response has been studied for years with different models of alteration of other brain structures to understand its complex functioning and its relationship with the rest of the body. Studies in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) showed that the cerebellar function is modified by deficit of the basal ganglia; which supports the hypothesis that both structures are related anatomically and functionally.
Methods
In our study, the ventrolateral striatum (VLS) of the basal ganglia was altered by an electrolytic lesion, in order to produce a similar jaw frequency of jaw tremor movements presented in parkinsonism, thereafter we analyzed the effect of the lesion on the expression of multiunit activity (MUA) of the cerebellum.
Results
We found cerebellar activation during mandibular movements and increment during oral jaw tremor movements. In addition, the amplitude of baseline MUA registered in animals with alteration of the VLS decreased with respect to the intact group.
Conclusions
Accordingly, we conclude that cerebellar changes in MUA may be due to a decrease in the cerebellar inflectional or as a possible compensatory function between cerebellum and basal ganglia.
Resumen
Introducción
La respuesta cerebelar se ha estudiado durante años con diferentes modelos de alteración de diferentes estructuras cerebrales, para comprender su complejo funcionamiento y su relación con el resto del organismo. Los estudios en pacientes con la enfermedad de Parkinson mostraron que la función cerebelar se modifica por el déficit de los ganglios basales, lo que apoya la hipótesis de que ambas estructuras están relacionadas anatómica y funcionalmente.
Métodos
En nuestro estudio, el estriado ventrolateral (EVL) de los ganglios basales fue alterado por una lesión electrolítica, con el fin de producir una frecuencia mandibular similar a los movimientos de temblor mandibular que se presentan en el parkinsonismo. Posteriormente analizamos el efecto de la lesión sobre la expresión de actividad multiunitaria (AMU) del cerebelo.
Resultados
Encontramos activación cerebelar durante los movimientos mandibulares e incremento durante los movimientos de temblor mandibular. Además, la amplitud de la AMU basal registrada en animales con alteración del EVL disminuyó con respecto al grupo intacto.
Conclusiones
En consecuencia, concluimos que los cambios cerebelares en la AMU, pueden deberse a una disminución de la modulación cerebelar o como una posible función compensadora entre el cerebelo y los ganglios basales.
Keywords: Parkinsonism; Ventrolateral striatum; Electrolytic lesion; Cerebellum; Multiunit activity; Parkinsonismo; Estriado ventrolateral; Lesión electrolítica; Cerebelo; Actividad multiunitaria

Hongli Chang, Bo Liu, Hongguang Chang, Na Li, Min Xu, Guilai Zuo, Wubing He, Xuenan Wang,
D2 receptor antagonist raclopride regulates glutamatergic neuronal activity in the pedunculopontine nucleus in a rat model of Parkinson's disease,
Biomedical Technology,
Volume 8,
2024,
Pages 81-91,
ISSN 2949-723X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bmt.2024.10.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2949723X24000321)
Abstract: Parkinson disease (PD) is defined by the loss of dopamine (DA). Changes in the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), particularly in local field potential (LFP), can be attributed to deficits in DA and DA receptor expression levels. PPN is a heterogeneous nucleus consisting of cholinergic, γ-aminobutyric acid (GABAergic), and glutamatergic neurons. However, it is unclear whether low levels of DA receptors affect the activity of different PPN neuron types. We record the neuronal activity of PPN by administering the selective dopamine D1 and D2 receptor antagonists, SCH23390 and Raclopride, respectively. This study discover that the firing rates of glutamatergic neurons could be normalized, and their firing patterns were more consistent in lesioned rats treated with raclopride. Raclopride administration could correct the increased coherence and phase locking between glutamatergic spikes and beta-band oscillatory activity in lesioned rats. Raclopride administration correct the increased coherence and phase locking between glutamatergic spikes and beta-band oscillatory activity in lesioned rats.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Dopamine receptor antagonist; Raclopride; Pedunculopontine nucleus; Glutamatergic neurons

Nutan Singh, Priyanka Tripathi,
An ensemble technique to predict Parkinson's disease using machine learning algorithms,
Speech Communication,
Volume 159,
2024,
103067,
ISSN 0167-6393,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.specom.2024.103067.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167639324000396)
Abstract: Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder affecting motor and non-motor symptoms. Its symptoms develop slowly, making early identification difficult. Machine learning has a significant potential to predict Parkinson's disease on features hidden in voice data. This work aimed to identify the most relevant features from a high-dimensional dataset, which helps accurately classify Parkinson's Disease with less computation time. Three individual datasets with various medical features based on voice have been analyzed in this work. An Ensemble Feature Selection Algorithm (EFSA) technique based on filter, wrapper, and embedding algorithms that pick highly relevant features for identifying Parkinson's Disease is proposed, and the same has been validated on three different datasets based on voice. These techniques can shorten training time to improve model accuracy and minimize overfitting. We utilized different ML models such as K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Random Forest, Decision Tree, Support Vector Machine (SVM), Bagging Classifier, Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) Classifier, and Gradient Boosting. Each of these models was fine-tuned to ensure optimal performance within our specific context. Moreover, in addition to these established classifiers, we proposed an ensemble classifier is found on a high optimal majority of the votes. Dataset-I achieves classification accuracy with 97.6 %, F1-score 97.9 %, precision with 98 % and recall with 98 %. Dataset-II achieves classification accuracy 90.2 %, F1-score 90.2 %, precision 90.2 %, and recall 90.5 %. Dataset-III achieves 83.3 % accuracy, F1-score 83.3 %, precision 83.5 % and recall 83.3 %. These results have been taken using 13 out of 23, 45 out of 754, and 17 out of 46 features from respective datasets. The proposed EFSA model has performed with higher accuracy and is more efficient than other models for each dataset.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Voice disorder; Machine learning; Feature selection; SMOTE; Ensemble and hyper tuning

Mohammed Hawash, Mohammad Qneibi, Hiba Natsheh, Noor Haj Mohammed, Lubaba Abu Hamda, Anil Kumar, Barbara Olech, Paulina Maria Dominiak, Sosana Bdir, Mohammad Bdair,
Evaluating the Neuroprotective Potential of Novel Benzodioxole Derivatives in Parkinson’s Disease via AMPA Receptor Modulation,
ACS Chemical Neuroscience,
Volume 15, Issue 11,
2024,
Pages 2334-2349,
ISSN 1948-7193,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00163.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1948719324002172)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a significant health issue because it gradually damages the nervous system. α-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors play a significant role in the development of PD. The current investigation employed hybrid benzodioxole-propanamide (BDZ-P) compounds to get information on AMPA receptors, analyze their biochemical and biophysical properties, and assess their neuroprotective effects. Examining the biophysical characteristics of all the subunits of the AMPA receptor offers insights into the impact of BDZ-P on the desensitization and deactivation rate. It demonstrates a partial improvement in the locomotor capacities in a mouse model of Parkinson’s disease. In addition, the in vivo experiment assessed the locomotor activity by utilizing the open-field test. Our findings demonstrated that BDZ-P7 stands out with its remarkable potency, inhibiting the GluA2 subunit nearly 8-fold with an IC50 of 3.03 μM, GluA1/2 by 7.5-fold with an IC50 of 3.14 μM, GluA2/3 by nearly 7-fold with an IC50 of 3.19 μM, and GluA1 by 6.5-fold with an IC50 of 3.2 μM, significantly impacting the desensitization and deactivation rate of the AMPA receptor. BDZ-P7 showed an in vivo impact of partially reinstating locomotor abilities in a mouse model of PD. The results above suggest that the BDZ-P7 compounds show great promise as top contenders for the development of novel neuroprotective therapies.

Keywords: AMPA receptor; benzodioxole-propanamide; Parkinson’s disease; MicroED

Jing Dong, Sophia Peschke, Angelina Kirschner, Carla Palleis, Jan Hinnerk Mehrkens, Maximilian Scherer, Elisabeth Kaufmann, Thomas Koeglsperger,
Subjective patient rating as a novel feedback signal for DBS programming in Parkinson's disease,
Brain Stimulation,
Volume 18, Issue 3,
2025,
Pages 770-779,
ISSN 1935-861X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brs.2025.03.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1935861X25000610)
Abstract: Background
Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS) effectively alleviates motor fluctuations in Parkinson's disease (PD). Optimal electrode placement and effective programming significantly influence outcomes. From a patient's perspective, DBS should relieve motor symptoms while avoiding side effects. However, there is a lack of programming routines that consider patients' subjective feedback for parameter adjustment.
Objective
This study assessed the usefulness of patients' subjective ratings as feedback for DBS programming.
Methods
We analyzed 260 DBS settings from 11 STN-DBS patients, pairing each volume of tissue activated (VTA) with a subjective rating measured by a visual analogue scale (VAS). We performed sweet spot mapping and connectivity analyses, utilizing voxel-wise and nonparametric permutation statistics to identify neuroanatomical regions and connectivity profiles associated with the highest VAS ratings. To validate our findings, we cross-validated the results in an independent test dataset of 6 patients (189 settings) to determine if the sweet spot and connectivity profile could predict the subjective patient perception.
Results
VTAs with the highest VAS scores were localized to the dorsolateral STN, consistent with published sweet spots derived from clinical data. Connectivity with the supplementary motor area (SMA) and primary motor cortex (M1) was associated with a more positive subjective perception. Connectivity profiles derived from one dataset successfully predicted outcomes in an independent dataset, as validated through leave-one-cohort-out cross-validation.
Conclusions
Mapping patients' subjective perceptions using VAS yields conclusive anatomical results that align with objective clinical and imaging measures. VAS-guided programming could provide an additional feedback mechanism for both acute and chronic DBS parameter adjustments.
Keywords: Visual analogue scale (VAS); Parkinson's disease (PD); Deep brain stimulation (DBS); Connectomics

Sangeetha S, B. Umarani,
MRI Image-Based Parkinson’s disease classification using Deep Maxout fuzzy EfficientNet,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 103,
2025,
107416,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2024.107416.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809424014745)
Abstract: At present, Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a highly prevalent neurodegenerative trouble. With consideration of several factors for assessing PD diagnosis, specialists generally make decisions by estimating the present examination outcomes of patients. These are more complicated processes, particularly when while count of factors, which experts have to assess is higher. Owing to these reasons, diagnosing PD needs skilled and experienced specialists. Here, Deep Maxout Fuzzy EfficientNet (DMFEN) is presented for PD classification using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) images. Three input images such as the sagittal, coronal, and axial images are taken into consideration for classifying Parkinson’s disease. A Gaussian filter (GF) performs pre-processing on the input image. The augmentation of filtered images is accomplished with concern to augmentation techniques. Then, features are extracted from three augmented images. Afterwards, PD detection is carried out employing Shepard Convolutional Neural Network Fuzzy Zeiler and Fergus network (ShCNN-Fuzzy-ZFNet). Additionally, the Shepard Convolutional Neural Network (ShCNN) and Zeiler and Fergus network (ZFNet) are combined with the fuzzy notion to create ShCNN-Fuzzy-ZFNet. Lastly, DMFEN is used to perform PD classification, which is a combination Deep Maxout Network (DMN) and pre-trained EfficientNet-B3 Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) enhanced with an attention mechanism (EfficientNet-B3-Attn-2) with fuzzy concept. Furthermore, DMFEN achieved 91.8% of the true negative rate (TNR), 91.3% of the true positive rate (TPR), 91.3% of the negative predictive value (NPV), 91.5% of the positive predictive value (PPV), and 92.6% of accuracy.
Keywords: Deep Maxout Network; pre-trained EfficientNet-B3 Convolutional Neural Network enhanced with an attention mechanism; Shepard Convolutional Neural Network; Zeiler and Fergus network; Parkinson’s disease

Giovanni Mostile, Salvatore Quattropani, Federico Contrafatto, Claudio Terravecchia, Michelangelo Riccardo Caci, Alessandra Chiara, Calogero Edoardo Cicero, Giulia Donzuso, Alessandra Nicoletti, Mario Zappia,
Testing machine learning algorithms to evaluate fluctuating and cognitive profiles in Parkinson’s disease by motion sensors and EEG data,
Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal,
Volume 27,
2025,
Pages 778-784,
ISSN 2001-0370,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csbj.2025.02.019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2001037025000467)
Abstract: Objective
We aimed to test machine learning algorithms for classifying fluctuating and cognitive profiles in Parkinson’s Disease (PD) by using multimodal instrumental data.
Methods
Data of motion transducers while performing instrumented Timed-Up-and-Go test (iTUG) (N = 30 subjects) and EEG (N = 49 subjects) from PD patients were collected. Study patients were classified based on cognitive profile (“mild cognitive impairment” by standardized criteria vs “normal cognition”) and L-dopa acute motor response (“fluctuating” vs “stable”) to be analyzed by machine learning algorithms and compared with historical control data from healthy subjects group-matched by age for both iTUG and EEG study (for iTUG: N = 31 subjects; for EEG: N = 27 subjects).
Results
Artificial Neural Network-based models revealed the best performances when applied to specific phases of the iTUG in differentiating PD vs controls (91 % accuracy) as well as in differentiating cognitive profile (95 % accuracy) and motor response status (96 % accuracy) among PD subjects. K-Nearest Neighbors revealed best performances when applied to EEG data in discriminating PD vs controls (85 % accuracy). Random Forest Classifier revealed best performances when applied to EEG data in differentiating cognitive profile (96 % accuracy) and motor response status (91 % accuracy) among PD subjects.
Conclusions
By processing multimodal instrumental data, specific machine learning algorithms have been identified which discriminated L-dopa responsiveness and cognitive profile in PD. Further studies are needed to validate them in independent samples using a user-friendly software interface created ad hoc.
Keywords: Machine learning; Wereable sensors; EEG; Parkinson; Levodopa; Cognitive impairment

Tongyue He, Junxin Chen, David Camacho,
Empowering the measurement of early Parkinson’s disease digital biomarkers by a features-attention fusion network and smartphone,
Measurement,
Volume 247,
2025,
116780,
ISSN 0263-2241,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2025.116780.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263224125001393)
Abstract: With the rise in Parkinson’s disease (PD) cases in an aging society, daily screening is essential to reduce the burden on neurologists. Based on the above scenarios, this paper proposes a feature attention fusion network (FAFNet) for the measurement of early PD digital biomarkers by smartphone. Concretely, the smartphone voice recording is converted into two spectrograms, emphasizing low and high frequencies. Two spectrograms are then processed through a feature extraction network comprising CNN skeleton, self-attention module, and channel-spatial attention module. The self-attention module can improve the expressiveness of the model, while the channel-spatial attention module highlights the most informative channels and spatial positions. To effectively fuse the features, we design an attention fusion module that can automatically learn and assign weights. Additionally, we propose a Custom Loss function that accounts for measurement accuracy and the impact of the attention mechanism. Experimental results demonstrate that FAFNet outperforms other state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Early Parkinson’s disease; Digital biomarker; Attention mechanism; Feature fusion; Smartphone

G. Gimenez-Aparisi, E. Guijarro-Estelles, A. Chornet-Lurbe, D. Cerveró-Albert, Dongmei Hao, Guangfei Li, Y. Ye-Lin,
Abnormal dynamic features of cortical microstates for detecting early-stage Parkinson's disease by resting-state electroencephalography: Systematic analysis of the influence of eye condition,
Heliyon,
Volume 11, Issue 1,
2025,
e41500,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e41500.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024175317)
Abstract: Resting state electroencephalography (EEG) has proved useful in studying electrophysiological changes in neurodegenerative diseases. In many neuropathologies, microstate analysis of the eyes-closed (EC) scalp EEG is a robust and highly reproducible technique for assessing topological changes with high temporal resolution. However, scalp EEG microstate maps tend to underestimate the non-occipital or non-alpha-band networks, which can also be used to detect neuropathological changes. Recent evidence has shown that the source-space microstates can characterize distinct functional connectivity patterns but its clinical ability to detect neuropathological changes has not been demonstrated so far. It should also be remembered that the eye condition may play an important role in neural activity dynamics. The aim of this study was to systematically characterize the dynamic neuropathological features of sensor-space and source-space EEG microstates in PD patients with no cognitive impairment in both EC and EO conditions with the aim of identifying potential biomarkers that could be used as a complementary clinical screening method for early PD detection. We found that the dynamic features of the source-space microstates were more sensitive in detecting PD than the sensor-space microstates, while EO was able to detect neuropathological changes in PD patients better than EC. In EO, PD disease exhibited significantly higher occurrence and coverage in visual-network related source-space microstates and abnormally high duration in sensorimotor network-related microstates. Our results suggest that the source-space microstate analysis of resting-state EEG could provide robust biomarkers to detect early-stage PD, which would allow the development of patient-oriented strategies to prevent the disease and improve the patients’ quality of life.
Keywords: Resting state electroencephalography; Parkinson; Microstate; Eyes influence; Dynamic features

Rosa María Rodríguez Sarmiento, Stefan Berchtold, Nenad Manevski, Lothar Lindemann, Fabian Dey, Thomas Clairfeuille, Davide Amendola, Nicolas Vautrelle, Venceslas Duveau, Eoin C. O′Connor,
Orally Bioavailable Dopamine D1/D5 Receptor-Biased Agonists to Study the Role of β‑Arrestin in Treatment-Related Dyskinesia in Parkinson’s Disease,
Journal of Medicinal Chemistry,
2025,
,
ISSN 1520-4804,
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.5c00294.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1520480425006982)
Abstract: Dopamine replacement therapies for Parkinson’s disease often produce dyskinesias with long-term use. Published studies suggest that introducing β-arrestin signaling might be protective for dyskinesia. We advanced known noncatecholamine D1/D5 receptor G protein-biased agonists and found that removal of oxygen in the linker from published compounds limited β-arrestin recruitment, whereas introduction of nitrogen on the central o-phenyl linker favored β-arrestin recruitment and provided orally bioavailable compounds. Cryogenic electron microscopy suggested key receptor–ligand interactions influencing the different bias behaviors. We discovered compound 24, a D1/D5 receptor agonist with β-arrestin recruitment and properties for use in vivo. We compared 24 with tavapadon, which shows weak efficacy for β-arrestin signaling, in a rat model of Parkinson’s disease with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. At particular doses, compound 24 produced efficacy comparable to L-DOPA, but with fewer concomitant dyskinesias. This first in vivo study suggests that β-arrestin may have a positive influence on reducing dyskinesias following acute administration.


Mayu Ishiguro, Manabu Funayama, Taku Hatano, Hiroshi Nishida, Yuko Wada, Kazuyuki Noda, Masahiko Tomiyama, Hiroyo Yoshino, Yuanzhe Li, Stephanie Ong, Ettore Cioffi, Kenya Nishioka, Nobutaka Hattori,
Genetic and clinical study of PARK7 in Japanese Parkinson's disease,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 15,
2024,
e35271,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e35271.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024113023)
Abstract: Background
Biallelic variants in PARK7, which encodes protein-nucleic acid deglycase DJ-1, can cause early-onset Parkinson's disease (PD). Although many patients with PARK7 variants have been identified from European and Middle Eastern ethnic groups, there have been no reports in the Japanese population.
Objectives
To determine the prevalence and clinical features of patients with PD harboring PARK7 variants in Japan.
Methods
We performed a molecular genetic analysis of PD patients with PARK7 variants identified using comprehensive panel sequencing, to explore the details of variants. Moreover, clinical neurological features were investigated, including neuroimaging analyses. This study followed STROBE guidelines.
Results
Four patients with biallelic rare variants of PARK7 were identified in the cohort. All four patients presented with levodopa-responsive parkinsonism, with an age at onset in the early 30s. Furthermore, two of the four patients had psychiatric complications. Dopamine transporter imaging revealed nigrostriatal pathway dysfunction.
Conclusions
To our knowledge, this is the first report of Japanese patients with PARK7 variants. We identified a relatively low frequency of PARK7 variants in patients in Japan. As opposed to typical patients with sporadic PD, the identified patients developed the disease in their 30s and presented with a variety of non-motor symptoms and complications. Further studies are needed to identify the clinical features related to PARK7 variants in Japanese patients with PD, and to analyze the pathophysiology of how the variants identified in the present study might affect DJ-1 function.
Keywords: Familial Parkinson's disease; DJ-1; Genetics

Tingting feng, Hongcheng zheng, Zhan zhang, Peidong fan, Xinling yang,
Mechanism and therapeutic targets of the involvement of a novel lysosomal proton channel TMEM175 in Parkinson's disease,
Ageing Research Reviews,
Volume 100,
2024,
102373,
ISSN 1568-1637,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2024.102373.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568163724001910)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD), recognized as the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease in the aging population, presents a significant challenge due to the current lack of effective treatment methods to mitigate its progression. Many pathogenesis of PD are related to lysosomal dysfunction. Moreover, extensive genetic studies have shown a significant correlation between the lysosomal membrane protein TMEM175 and the risk of developing PD. Building on this discovery, TMEM175 has been identified as a novel potassium ion channel. Intriguingly, further investigations have found that potassium ion channels gradually close and transform into hydrion "excretion" channels in the microenvironment of lysosomes. This finding was further substantiated by studies on TMEM175 knockout mice, which exhibited pronounced motor dysfunction in pole climbing and suspension tests, alongside a notable reduction in dopamine neurons within the substantia nigra compacta. Despite these advancements, the current research landscape is not without its controversies. In light of this, the present review endeavors to methodically examine and consolidate a vast array of recent literature on TMEM175. This comprehensive analysis spans from the foundational research on the structure and function of TMEM175 to expansive population genetics studies and mechanism research utilizing cellular and animal models.A thorough understanding of the structure and function of TMEM175, coupled with insights into the intricate mechanisms underpinning lysosomal dysfunction in PD dopaminergic neurons, is imperative. Such knowledge is crucial for pinpointing precise intervention targets, thereby paving the way for novel therapeutic strategies that could potentially alter the neurodegenerative trajectory of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Lysosomal transmembrane protein 175; TMEM175; Systematic review

Naif Al Mudawi,
Developing a Model for Parkinson’s Disease Detection Using Machine Learning Algorithms,
Computers, Materials and Continua,
Volume 79, Issue 3,
2024,
Pages 4945-4962,
ISSN 1546-2218,
https://doi.org/10.32604/cmc.2024.048967.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1546221824000171)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a chronic neurological condition that progresses over time. People start to have trouble speaking, writing, walking, or performing other basic skills as dopamine-generating neurons in some brain regions are injured or die. The patient’s symptoms become more severe due to the worsening of their signs over time. In this study, we applied state-of-the-art machine learning algorithms to diagnose Parkinson’s disease and identify related risk factors. The research worked on the publicly available dataset on PD, and the dataset consists of a set of significant characteristics of PD. We aim to apply soft computing techniques and provide an effective solution for medical professionals to diagnose PD accurately. This research methodology involves developing a model using a machine learning algorithm. In the model selection, eight different machine learning techniques were adopted: Namely, Random Forest (RF), Decision Tree (DT), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Naïve Bayes (NB), Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LightGBM), K-Nearest Neighbours (KNN), Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), and Logistic Regression (LR). Subsequently, the concentrated models were validated through 10-fold Cross-Validation and Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC)—Area Under the Curve (AUC). In addition, GridSearchCV was utilised to measure each algorithm’s best parameter; eventually, the models were trained through the hyperparameter tuning approach. With 98% accuracy, LightGBM had the highest accuracy in this study. RF, KNN, and SVM came in second with 96% accuracy. Furthermore, the performance scores of NB and LR were recorded to be 76% and 83%, respectively. It is to be mentioned that after applying 10-fold cross-validation, the average performance score of LightGBM accounted for 93%. At the same time, the percentage of ROC-AUC appeared at 0.92, which indicates that this LightGBM model reached a satisfactory level. Finally, we extracted meaningful insights and figured out potential gaps on top of PD. By extracting meaningful insights and identifying potential gaps, our study contributes to the significance and impact of PD research. The application of advanced machine learning algorithms holds promise in accurately diagnosing PD and shedding light on crucial aspects of the disease. This research has the potential to enhance the understanding and management of PD, ultimately improving the lives of individuals affected by this condition.
Keywords: LightGBM; cross-validation; ROC-AUC; Parkinson’s disease (PD); SVM and XGBoost

Andreas Wallin, Erika Franzén, Jakob Studsgaard, Mikkel Baltzer Hansen, Sverker Johansson, John Kodal Brincks,
Balance exercise interventions in Parkinson's disease: A systematic mapping review of components, progression, and intensity,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 133,
2025,
107310,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107310.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025000513)
Abstract: Background
Rehabilitation in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) often includes balance training, but knowledge about optimal training content remains limited.
Objectives
To describe the design, content, delivery, and reporting of balance training for individuals with PD, and furthermore, to map the systematic use and reporting of methods monitoring intensity in balance training interventions for individuals with PD.
Methods
Six databases were searched. Interventions with at least 50 % of exercises challenging balance control were included. Balance training types (exergaming, multi-modal, sensory-motor integrated, and task-oriented) were categorized based on specific balance exercise components: motor (limits of stability, anticipatory motor strategies, reactive motor strategies, and control of dynamics), sensory (vestibular, visual, and somatosensory systems), and cognitive (dual-tasking in motor or cognitive activities). Training Frequency, Intensity, Time, Type, Volume, and Progression (FITT-VP principles) were extracted.
Results
In total, 114 studies (interventions n = 126) with 5335 participants (mean age: 67.5 years; mean PD duration: 6.8 years) were included. The highest mean number of balance components was found in the multi-modal (5.8), followed by sensory-motor (5.6), task-oriented (4.2), and exergaming (4.0). Intensity strategies were reported in 93 % of the exergaming interventions, which was superior to the other training types (multi-modal (18 %), sensory-motor (17 %), and task-oriented (6 %)).
Conclusions
Multi-modal and sensory-motor interventions had a greater focus on challenging balance components compared to other types of training, while exergaming interventions demonstrated superior reporting of intensity strategies. Future research is encouraged to prioritize implementing intensity strategies and aim to incorporate a broader range of balance components within balance training exercises.
Keywords: balance control; balance training; Parkinson's disease; Physiotherapy; Systematic review

K. Long, L. Quinn, A. Pacheco, C.E. Macpherson, J. Alomar,
Leveraging Telehealth and Wearables for Parkinson’s Disease: Innovative Approaches to Enhance Personalized Care,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 134,
2025,
107592,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107592.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025003335)

Nadezhda G. Gumanova, Natalya L. Bogdanova, Alexander Yu. Gorshkov,
Serum levels of the Parkinson's disease-linked protein Parkin are specifically elevated in COVID-19,
Journal of Clinical Virology Plus,
Volume 5, Issue 1,
2025,
100206,
ISSN 2667-0380,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcvp.2025.100206.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667038025000055)
Abstract: Background
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and is known to cause various unfavorable effects, including neurodegenerative disorders. The aim of the present study was to assess comparative serum protein profiles specifically associated with COVID-19.
Methods
COVID-19 infection was confirmed by the detection of immunoglobulin G (IgG)-SARS antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 S1 protein receptor-binding domain in serum samples collected in 2019–2021. IgG antibodies to adenovirus (IgG-AdV) were analyzed in serum samples collected in 2016–2018 prior the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Comparative protein profiling was conducted in matched serum samples with positive or negative IgG-SARS-status using the Signaling Explorer Antibody Array (SET100) that included 1358 specific antibodies in two replicates. This analysis identified Parkin as a top protein discriminating between the SARS-positive and negative status. The results were validated using in-house ELISA in the serum of participants recruited in 2019- 2021. Specificity versus another viral infection was tested in the serum samples with positive or negative status of IgG-AdV antibodies.
Results
High serum levels of the Parkinson's disease-linked protein Parkin were associated with SARS-positive status (P < 0.05) but were not associated with IgG-AdV-positive-status (P > 0.05).
Conclusions
Specific associations of Parkin with COVID-19 contribute to identification of the signaling pathways linked to COVID-19 effects.
Keywords: Parkin protein; Serum proteome profiling; Serum biomarkers; COVID-19; Adenovirus

Lei Xu, Zhongjin Zhang, Ziqi Feng, Sixiang Niu, Lixia Yang, Baoguo Xiao, Xiao-ming Jin, Cungen Ma, Huijie Fan, Shengnan Xiao, Zhi Chai,
Study on the anti-Parkinson's disease activity mechanism and preparation of panaxadiol,
Phytomedicine,
Volume 136,
2025,
156296,
ISSN 0944-7113,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156296.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0944711324009516)
Abstract: Background
Traditional Chinese medicine offers unique and valuable resources for the exploration of novel approaches to disease treatment. Panaxadiol, an active compound derived from the transformation of ginsenosides. It has a variety of pharmacological activities. However, there is a lack of research regarding its effects on Parkinson's disease (PD).
Purpose and Study design
This study investigates the activity and mechanism of panaxadiol in the treatment of PD both in vivo and in vitro. In addition, a new method has been developed to extract panaxadiol.
Results
The results showed that in vitro, panaxadiol can reduce the viability and cytotoxicity of BV2 cells induced by LPS, and inhibit the production of pro-inflammatory factors through the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB pathway. In vivo, panaxadiol can improve motor and intestinal dysfunction in PD mice and repair the loss of DA neurons. Further studies have shown that panaxadiol treatment alleviates damage to the blood-brain barrier (BBB), inhibits neuroinflammation in the substantia nigra (SN), and further reduces damage to DA neurons. Subsequently, it was found that panaxadiol alleviated peripheral inflammation and significantly restored the intestinal microbial community. Further mechanistic studies found that panaxadiol treatment inhibited the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway and its downstream pro-inflammatory products in the SN. In addition, Additionally, the response surface method was employed to identify the optimal conditions for extracting panaxadiol using a deep eutectic solvent (NADES).
Conclusion
In summary, this study has found for the first time that panaxadiol can effectively improve the symptoms of PD by regulating neuroinflammation, repairing the BBB, and gut microbiota. Meanwhile, adopting a green extraction process significantly increases the content of panaxadiol, providing a new direction for the development of PD candidate drugs.
Keywords: Panaxadiol; Parkinson's disease (PD); Inflammation; Intestinal flora; Deep eutectic solvent (NADES)

Rui Yang, Chentao He, Piao Zhang, Yan Li, Siming Rong, Xi Chen, Qi Qi, Ziqi Gao, Jieshan Chi, Lijuan Wang, Mengfei Cai, Yuhu Zhang,
Plasma sphingolipids, dopaminergic degeneration and clinical progression in idiopathic Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 126,
2024,
107071,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107071.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024010836)
Abstract: Background
Sphingolipid dysregulation in Parkinson's disease (PD) may affect the release and uptake of striatal dopamine. However, the longitudinal relationship between sphingolipids, striatal dopaminergic degeneration, and clinical correlates in idiopathic PD (iPD) remain unclear.
Objective
To investigate the relationship between plasma sphingolipids, striatal dopamine transporter specific binding ratio (DAT-SBR) and clinical symptoms in iPD.
Methods
We included 283 iPD patients and 121 healthy controls (HC) from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI), utilizing available data on plasma sphingolipids (sphingomyelin [SM] and ceramide [CER]), striatal DAT-SBR and clinical assessments. Linear mixed models and mediation analyses were used to examine the relationship between sphingolipids, DAT-SBR, and clinical progression in iPD.
Results
Lower baseline SM levels were significantly associated with a faster decline in DAT-SBR in both the caudate (p = 0.015) and putamen (p = 0.002), with the putamen association remaining significant after Bonferroni correction (p = 0.015). No significant association was found for CER. Patients in the lowest quartile of baseline SM showed faster progression in MDS-UPDRS I (p = 0.013) and II (p = 0.011), while those in the lowest quartile of baseline CER showed faster progression in MDS-UPDRS II (p = 0.013) and III (p = 0.033). The progression rate of caudate DAT-SBR partially mediated the relationships between SM and progression in MDS-UPDRS I and II (p < 0.01).
Conclusion
Sphingolipids are associated with worse dopaminergic degeneration and potentially linked to faster progression in iPD, holding the promise for identifying individuals with faster progression in iPD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Sphingolipid; Sphingomyelin; Ceramide; SPECT

Eva Muthig, Maximilian U. Friedrich, Helen Friedrich, Nicoló Pozzi, Stanislavs Bardins, Pavel Navratil, Ghadir Abbas, Erich Schneider, Jens Volkmann, Martin Reich, Daniel Zeller,
Subthalamic deep brain stimulation, but not levodopa, improves vergence eye movement deficits in Parkinson’s disease,
Clinical Neurophysiology,
Volume 176,
2025,
2110846,
ISSN 1388-2457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinph.2025.2110846.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1388245725006984)

Yingqi She, Yaming He, Jianwei Wu, Ning Liu,
Association between the sarcopenia-related traits and Parkinson's disease: A bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization study,
Archives of Gerontology and Geriatrics,
Volume 122,
2024,
105374,
ISSN 0167-4943,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.archger.2024.105374.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167494324000505)
Abstract: Objective
To explore the causal association between sarcopenia-related traits and Parkinson's disease by Mendelian randomization (MR) approach.
Methods
A genome-wide association study (GWAS) of sarcopenia-related traits was done at the UK Biobank (UKB). The traits were appendicular lean mass, low hand grip strength (including the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People (EWGSOP) and the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health (FNIH) criteria and usual walking pace. The International Parkinson's Disease Genomics Consortium (IPDGC) gave us GWAS data for Parkinson's disease (PD). We used three different types of MR analyses: including Inverse-variance weighted (IVW), Mendelian randomized Egger regression (MR-Egger), and weighted median methods (both weighted and simple modes).
Results
The MR analysis showed that low hand grip strength was negatively associated with the risk of developing Parkinson's disease, including EWGSOP criterion (odds ratio (OR) = 0.734; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.575–0.937, P = 0.013) and FNIH criterion (OR = 0.619; 95% CI = 0.419–0.914, P = 0.016), and usual walking pace was also a risk factor for Parkinson's disease (OR = 3.307, 95% CI = 1.277–8.565, P = 0.014).
Conclusions
In European population, low hand grip strength is negatively associated with the risk of developing Parkinson's disease, and usual walking pace is also a risk factor for Parkinson's disease. Further exploration of the potential genetic mechanisms underlying hand grip strength and Parkinson's disease and the potential relationship between walking pace, balance, and falls in Parkinson's patients may help to reduce the burden of sarcopenia and Parkinson's disease.
Keywords: Sarcopenia; Parkinson's disease; Mendelian randomization

Yan Li, Jiahui Zhang, Boqin Ma, Wenjun Yu, Meixia Xu, Weijing Luan, Qinglong Yu, Li Zhang, Rong Rong, Yuanlei Fu, Haiqiang Cao,
Nanotechnology used for siRNA delivery for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases: Focusing on Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease,
International Journal of Pharmaceutics,
Volume 666,
2024,
124786,
ISSN 0378-5173,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpharm.2024.124786.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378517324010202)
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases (ND) are often accompanied by dementia, motor dysfunction, or disability. Caring for these patients imposes a significant psychological and financial burden on families. Until now, there are no effective methods for the treatment of NDs. Among them, Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and Parkinson’s disease (PD) are the two most common. Recently, studies have revealed that the overexpression of certain genes may be linked to the occurrence of AD and PD. Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) are a powerful tool for gene silencing because they can specifically bind to and cleave target mRNA. However, the intrinsic properties of naked siRNA and various physiological barriers limit the application of siRNA in the brain. Nanotechnology is a promising option for addressing these issues. Nanoparticles are not only able to protect siRNA from degradation but also have the advantage of crossing various physiological barriers to reach the brain target of siRNA. In this review, we aim to introduce diverse nanotechnology used for delivering siRNA to treat AD and PD. Finally, we will briefly discuss our perspectives on this promising field.
Keywords: Neurodegenerative diseases; Brain drug delivery; Therapeutic drug; Small interfering RNA; Nanotechnology

Khalid Saad Alharbi,
Non-coding RNAs as therapeutic targets in Parkinson’s Disease: A focus on dopamine,
Pathology - Research and Practice,
Volume 263,
2024,
155641,
ISSN 0344-0338,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prp.2024.155641.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0344033824005521)
Abstract: Parkinson’s Disease is a highly complicated neurological disorder, with a key manifestation of loss of dopaminergic neurons. Despite the plethora of medicines that alleviate the symptoms, there is an urgent need for new treatments acting on the fundamental pathology of PD. Non-coding RNAs are becoming increasingly important in gene regulation and various cellular processes and are found to play a role in PD pathophysiology. This review analyzes the cross-talk of distinct ncRNAs with dopamine signaling. We attempt to constrain the various ncRNA networks that can activate dopamine production. First, we describe the deregulation of miRNAs that target dopamine receptors and have been implicated in PD. Next, we turn to the functions of lncRNAs in dopaminergic neurons and the connections to susceptibility genes for PD. Finally, we will analyze the novel circRNAs, such as ciRS-7, which may modulate dopamine-linked processes and serve as possible PD biomarkers. In this review, we describe recent progress in dopamine neuron revival to treat PD and the therapeutic potential of ncRNA. This review critically evaluates the available data, and we predict the role of some ncRNAs, such as PTBP1, to become candidate treatment targets in the future. Thus, this review aims to summarize the molecular causes for the deficit in dopamine signaling in PD and point to novel ncRNAs-linked therapeutic directions in neuroscience.
Keywords: Dopaminergic neurons; Dopamine signaling; NcRNAs; Parkinson’s disease; Therapeutic candidate; Pathology

Mohammed Al-Jabbar, Mohammed Alshahrani, Ebrahim Mohammed Senan, Ibrahim Abunadi, Sultan Ahmed Almalki, Eman A Alshari,
Hybrid Techniques of Multi-CNN and Ensemble Learning to Analyze Handwritten Spiral and Wave Drawing for Diagnosing Parkinson’s Disease,
CMES - Computer Modeling in Engineering and Sciences,
Volume 143, Issue 2,
2025,
Pages 2429-2457,
ISSN 1526-1492,
https://doi.org/10.32604/cmes.2025.063938.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1526149225001249)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by tremors, rigidity, and decreased movement. PD poses risks to individuals’ lives and independence. Early detection of PD is essential because it allows timely intervention, which can slow disease progression and improve outcomes. Manual diagnosis of PD is problematic because it is difficult to capture the subtle patterns and changes that help diagnose PD. In addition, the subjectivity and lack of doctors compared to the number of patients constitute an obstacle to early diagnosis. Artificial intelligence (AI) techniques, especially deep and automated learning models, provide promising solutions to address deficiencies in manual diagnosis. This study develops robust systems for PD diagnosis by analyzing handwritten helical and wave graphical images. Handwritten graphic images of the PD dataset are enhanced using two overlapping filters, the average filter and the Laplacian filter, to improve image quality and highlight essential features. The enhanced images are segmented to isolate regions of interest (ROIs) from the rest of the image using a gradient vector flow (GVF) algorithm, which ensures that features are extracted from only relevant regions. The segmented ROIs are fed into convolutional neural network (CNN) models, namely DenseNet169, MobileNet, and VGG16, to extract fine and deep feature maps that capture complex patterns and representations relevant to PD diagnosis. Fine and deep feature maps extracted from individual CNN models are combined into fused feature vectors for DenseNet169-MobileNet, MobileNet-VGG16, DenseNet169-VGG16, and DenseNet169-MobileNet-VGG16 models. This fusion technique aims to combine complementary and robust features from several models, which improves the extracted features. Two feature selection algorithms are considered to remove redundancy and weak correlations within the combined feature set: Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) and Maximum Entropy Score-based Selection (MESbS). These algorithms identify and retain the most strongly correlated features while eliminating redundant and weakly correlated features, thus optimizing the features to improve system performance. The fused and enhanced feature vectors are fed into two powerful classifiers, XGBoost and random forest (RF), for accurate classification and differentiation between individuals with PD and healthy controls. The proposed hybrid systems show superior performance, where the RF classifier used the combined features from the DenseNet169-MobileNet-VGG16 models with the ACO feature selection method, achieving outstanding results: area under the curve (AUC) of 99%, sensitivity of 99.6%, 99.3% accuracy, 99.35% accuracy, and 99.65% specificity.
Keywords: CNN; XGBoost; RF; GVF; fusion feature; PD

Shengnan Xiao, Lianmei Liu, Xuemei Qin, Lei Xu, Zhi Chai, Zhenyu Li,
Astragenol alleviates neuroinflammation and improves Parkinson's symptoms through amino acid metabolism pathway and inhibition of ferroptosis,
Journal of Ethnopharmacology,
Volume 348,
2025,
119896,
ISSN 0378-8741,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jep.2025.119896.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037887412500580X)
Abstract: Ethnopharmacological relevance
Astragalus membranaceus (Fisch.) Bunge, as a tonifying medicine, is widely used in the traditional Chinese medicine treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). We found Astragenol (AST) in the acid hydrolysis product of Astragalus membranaceus, which has anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects. However, the pharmacological effects and molecular mechanisms of AST in MPTP induced PD models have not been elucidated.
Aim of the study
This study aims to verify whether AST can improve the symptoms of MPTP induced PD model and elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying its pharmacological effects.
Materials and methods
The pharmacological effects of AST on cell viability, cytotoxicity, behavior, and pathology were evaluated using PD in vitro (MPP+ induced SH-SY5Y cells) and in vivo models (MPTP induced mouse model). In addition, through metabolomics and transcriptomics, we investigate differential metabolites and differentially expressed genes, analyze potential signaling pathways, and conduct validation experiments around signaling pathways to explore molecular mechanisms.
Results
The results showed that AST can protect SH-SY5Y cells from the cytotoxic effects of MPP+. Pharmacodynamic experiments on PD in vivo have shown that AST can alleviate motor disorders caused by MPTP, reduce inflammatory factors in serum and brain tissue, and improve abnormal aggregation of α-synuclein in PD models. Furthermore, metabolomics analysis revealed that AST may exert a relieving effect on neuroinflammation and PD symptoms by regulating amino acid metabolism. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the VDR gene is a potential gene for AST to exert pharmacological effects, and differential gene analysis suggests that the "Ferroptosis" signaling pathway may be a key pathway. Therefore, based on the "Ferroptosis" signaling pathway, we conducted validation analysis and the results showed that AST can intervene in the expression of iron transport related proteins to significantly alleviate the abnormal aggregation of iron ions in brain tissue, regulate the Nrf2/HO-1/GPX4 signaling pathway to inhibit the process of ferroptosis. In addition, we demonstrated at the cellular level that AST can reverse the increase in ROS levels induced by MPP+, and thus observed that AST improves the cellular morphological changes of ferroptosis.
Conclusions
In summary, this study explored the potential application of AST in neurodegenerative diseases and found that AST can intervene in the progression of neuroinflammation and alleviate symptoms of PD by inhibiting ferroptosis. This discovery provides scientific basis for the development of drugs or dietary supplements for the neuroprotective effect of AST, and lays data support for the comprehensive elucidation of the development and application of Astragalus membranaceus in the "medicinal food homology".
Keywords: Astragenol; Parkinson's disease; Neuroinflammation; Ferroptosis; Multiomics analysis

Mengsha Qi, Shahwar Yasir, Ying Wang, Haixing Wang, Yu Jin, Jorge F. Bosch-Bayard, Chacón Lilia Morales, Pedro A. Valdes-Sosa, Maria L. Bringas-Vega,
Neuro-EPO Preserves Neural Stability in Parkinson’s Disease: An EEG Paired t-Test Analysis,
International Journal of Psychophysiology,
Volume 213, Supplement,
2025,
112658,
ISSN 0167-8760,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2025.112658.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167876025001540)

Ying Gao, Wenna Liu, Lei Shi, Peng Yang, Le Yang, Minggao Zhao, Li Luo,
Narirutin reduces microglia-mediated neuroinflammation by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 pathway in MPP+/MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease models,
Experimental Neurology,
Volume 389,
2025,
115232,
ISSN 0014-4886,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115232.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014488625000962)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra compacta (SNc). Although the detailed molecular mechanisms of PD remain unknown, microglia-mediated neuroinflammation undoubtedly plays a key role in disease progression. Narirutin (Nar), a major flavonoid naturally occurring in citrus fruits, has garnered considerable research attention due to its various therapeutic applications and low toxicity. However, its effects on PD remain unclear. In this study, we explored the protective effects of Nar in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-pyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mouse model as well as in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium (MPP+)-induced BV2 cells. Treatment with Nar (2.0, 10.0, and 50.0 mg/kg) reduced dopaminergic neuronal loss in a dose-dependent manner and ameliorated motor impairment in PD mice. Moreover, Nar administration inhibited microglia-mediated inflammation, evidenced by decreased microglial activation in SNc and BV2 cells, and lowered levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6) in the serum and cells. In addition, we found that Nar exerted anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 pathway. Importantly, using molecular docking and cellular thermal shift assay, we confirmed that JAK2 was a potential binding target of Nar. Overall, Nar attenuated MPTP/MPP+-induced neuroinflammation by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 pathway in activated microglia, thereby preventing dopaminergic neuron loss and improving motor disorders in PD mice. Our results provide new evidence supporting that Nar is promising for PD treatment and should be considered for further clinical development.
Keywords: Narirutin; Parkinson's disease; Microglia; Neuroinflammation; JAK2/STAT3 pathway

Ekaterini Kefalakes, Franziska J. Mewes, Diana Peristich, Clara Plötner, Volodymyr Shcherbatyy, Julia Schipke, Friederike Schneider, Christopher Käufer, Regina Rumpel,
A holistic rat model to investigate therapeutic interventions in Parkinson’s disease: viral induction of a slow-progressing motor phenotype, dopaminergic degeneration and early microglia neuroinflammation,
Brain Research Bulletin,
Volume 230,
2025,
111464,
ISSN 0361-9230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111464.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S036192302500276X)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease is a chronic progressive neurodegenerative disorder, mostly manifesting in late adulthood. Patients suffering from this idiopathic disease of the nervous system develop cardinal motor symptoms that usually appear after non-motor symptoms. It is characterized by loss of dopaminergic neurons located in the substantia nigra pars compacta and formation of insoluble intracellular protein inclusions of α-synuclein (Lewy Bodies). Another symptom is neuroinflammation, which often precedes dopaminergic neuron degeneration and the formation of aggregates. In this study, we aimed to establish a viral vector-mediated rat model of Parkinson’s disease that mimics both the histological features of the disease and its slow, age-related progression, including the development of a motor phenotype over time. Evaluation of different adeno-associated viral serotypes overexpressing the human α-synuclein protein revealed that both AAV/6 and AAV/DJ equally transduce primary dopaminergic neurons in vitro with the latter being more efficient. In vivo transduction of dopaminergic neurons with AAV/DJ led to their degeneration in the substantia nigra pars compacta, which coincided with reduced dopaminergic fibers reaching the ipsilateral striatum. Microglia inflammatory response and accumulation thereof was evident at early disease stages. Simultaneously, behavioral assessment in the cylinder, the stepping and the staircase test showed a decrease in gross motor performance while rearing and stepping. Taken together, we established an early AAV/DJ-mediated model for Parkinson’s disease in rats, which not only shows histological hallmarks but due to its progressive motor phenotype also provides a therapeutic window suitable for future pharmacological modification.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Human α-synuclein; Dopaminergic neuron; AAV/DJ; Motor impairment

Lucas R Nascimento, Augusto Boening, Rafaela JS Rocha, Willian A do Carmo, Louise Ada,
Walking training with auditory cueing improves walking speed more than walking training alone in ambulatory people with Parkinson’s disease: a systematic review,
Journal of Physiotherapy,
Volume 70, Issue 3,
2024,
Pages 208-215,
ISSN 1836-9553,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jphys.2024.06.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1836955324000596)
Abstract: Questions
In people with Parkinson’s disease, what is the effect of adding external cueing (ie, visual, auditory or somatosensorial cueing) to walking training compared with walking training alone in terms of walking, mobility, balance, fear of falling and freezing? Are any benefits carried over to participation or maintained beyond the intervention period?
Design
Systematic review of randomised trials with meta-analysis.
Participants
Ambulatory adults with Parkinson’s disease.
Intervention
Walking training with external cueing compared with walking training without external cueing.
Outcome measures
Walking (ie, speed, stride length and cadence), mobility, balance, fear of falling, freezing and participation.
Results
Ten trials involving a total of 309 participants were included. The mean PEDro score of the included trials was 5 (range 4 to 8). Walking training with auditory cueing improved walking speed by 0.09 m/s (95% CI 0.02 to 0.15) more than walking training alone. Although the best estimate was that auditory cueing may also improve stride length by 5 cm, this estimate was imprecise (95% CI –2 to 11). The addition of visual cueing to walking training did not improve walking speed or stride length. Results regarding cadence, mobility, balance, fear of falling, and freezing and maintenance of benefits beyond the intervention period remain uncertain.
Conclusion
This systematic review provided low-quality evidence that walking training with auditory cueing is more effective than walking training alone for improving walking speed in Parkinson’s disease. Cueing is an inexpensive and easy to implement intervention, so the mean estimate might be considered clinically worthwhile, although the confidence interval spans clinically trivial and worthwhile effects.
Registration
PROSPERO CRD42021255065.
Keywords: Parkinson’s Disease; Cues; Gait; Rhythm; Meta-analysis

Elena Sofia Cocco, Sanaz Pournajaf, Paola Romano, Giovanni Morone, Carrie-Louise Thouant, Leonardo Buscarini, Carlotta Maria Manzia, Matteo Cioeta, Giorgio Felzani, Francesco Infarinato, Marco Franceschini, Michela Goffredo,
Comparative analysis of upper body kinematics in stroke, Parkinson's disease, and healthy subjects: An observational study using IMU-based targeted box and block test,
Gait & Posture,
Volume 114,
2024,
Pages 69-77,
ISSN 0966-6362,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gaitpost.2024.09.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966636224006076)
Abstract: Background
The Box and Block Test (BBT) is an essential and widely used test in rehabilitation for the assessment of gross unilateral manual dexterity. Although it is a valid, simple, and ecological instrument, it does not provide a quantitative measure of the upper limb trajectories during the test.
Research question
The study introduces a new motion-capture-based method (using ecological Inertial Measurement Units - IMUs) to evaluate upper body kinematics while performing a targeted version of BBT (tBBT).
Methods
This observational study compares data from 35 healthy subjects, 35 subjects with Parkinson’s disease, and 35 post-stroke individuals to evaluate upper limb kinematics during tBBT quantitatively. Seven IMUs were placed on the trunk, head, and upper limb of each subject. The joint angles and kinematic scores were calculated and analyzed. Motor task execution time and kinematic scores were statistically correlated with clinical assessment measures. Kruskal-Wallis between groups test and Dunn-Bonferroni post-hoc were used.
Results
The statistics revealed significant differences (p<0.05) among the three groups. The analyzed joint angles highlight various compensatory strategies in neurological subjects, such as using the trunk to complete a motor task instead of the shoulder and using the wrist instead of the elbow, along with differences in movement fluidity (DimensionLess-Jerk, p<0.05). A positive correlation was found between kinematics and the Fugl-Meyer Assessment-Upper Limb (r=0.7344; p<0.01), and a negative correlation between kinematics and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (r=-0.5286; p<0.01).
Significance
The quantitative assessments of joint kinematics correlated to clinical assessments could guarantee a new method of assessment of the upper limb in subjects with motor deficits. This would allow to capture new insight into the characteristics of the subject’s disability, with implications for the choice of a personalized rehabilitation treatment focused on the motor recovery of the upper limb.
Keywords: Upper limb rehabilitation; Box and Block test; Parkinson’s disease; Stroke; Kinematic data

Mohammad Saleh Ranaiy, Hamed Ghazvini, Seyedeh Masoumeh Seyedhosseini Tamijani, Rezvan Yazdian-Robati, Naghmeh Ahmadiankia, Raheleh Rafaiee,
Implanting sinoatrial node-like pacemaker cells into the substantia nigra of the brain as a novel therapeutic approach for Parkinson’s disease,
Medical Hypotheses,
Volume 189,
2024,
111419,
ISSN 0306-9877,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mehy.2024.111419.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306987724001622)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is one of the most common diseases of the central nervous system. This disease stems from damage to the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). Patients with PD experience a spectrum of motor and non-motor symptoms. Common motor symptoms comprise bradykinesia, stiffness, and resting tremors. Alongside these primary motor symptoms, patients often deal with non-motor issues such as depression, anxiety, and cognitive impairment. For years, drugs such as L-Dopa and other medications have been used to alleviate the symptoms of this disease. However, prolonged use of these medications may lead to serious health complications such as impulsive and compulsive behaviors, hallucinations or delusions, and dyskinesia. Additionally, deep brain stimulation of the SN and stem cell therapy represent relatively novel and experimental treatment approaches for PD, each with its limitations. As an alternative approach, we propose the implantation of sinoatrial node-like pacemaker cells (SANLPCs) in the SN of the brain in PD patients. SANLPCs are engineered to generate continuous action potentials. Our hypothesis posits that implanting SANLPCs in the SN could result in sustained stimulation of the cells within the SN pars compacta, thereby potentially enhancing dopamine production. We anticipate that this innovative intervention may pave the way for more targeted and effective treatments for individuals afflicted with PD.
Keywords: Dopaminergic; Parkinson’s disease; Sinoatrial node; Pacemakers cells; Substantia nigra

Bingbing Wang, Can Zhang, Caizhen Shi, Tianyu Zhai, Jinghui Zhu, Dongmin Wei, Juan Shen, Zehao Liu, Kunpeng Jia, Lin Zhao,
Mechanisms of oral microflora in Parkinson's disease,
Behavioural Brain Research,
Volume 474,
2024,
115200,
ISSN 0166-4328,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115200.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432824003565)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease with complex pathogenesis and no effective treatment. Recent studies have shown that dysbiosis of the oral microflora is closely related to the development of PD. The abnormally distributed oral microflora of PD patients cause degenerative damage and necrosis of dopamine neurons by releasing their own components and metabolites, intervening in the oral-gut-brain axis, crossing the biofilm, inducing iron dysregulation, activating inter-microflora interactions, and through the mediation of saliva,ultimately influencing the development of the disease. This article reviews the structure of oral microflora in patients with PD, the mechanism of development of PD caused by oral microflora, and the potential value of targeting oral microflora in developing a new strategy for PD prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
Keywords: Oral microflora; Parkinson’s disease; Neurodegenerative disease; Oral dysbiosis; Oral-intestinal-brain axis

Ying-Long Peng, Jinwei Chen, Hengxiao Hu, Wenxiong Liu, Weiye Liang, Jian Wang,
Research progress of cell treatment strategy in Parkinson's disease,
Neuroscience Applied,
Volume 3,
2024,
104061,
ISSN 2772-4085,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nsa.2024.104061.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772408524001261)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurological disorder that often affects middle-aged and elderly people. It is primarily characterized by the degeneration of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the ventral midbrain. Clinical therapy mostly relies on the holistic approach of pharmaceutical intervention and surgical procedures. Nevertheless, therapies might just alleviate symptoms temporarily and then result in notable adverse consequences, ultimately failing to produce a therapeutic outcome. Stem cells has the benefits of being capable of self-renewal and exhibiting multi-directional differentiation potential. This enables replacement of dysfunctional neurons and reconstruction of neural circuit, offering promise for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. This research examines and evaluates the fundamental principles, effectiveness, benefits, and drawbacks of various stem cell types in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. This review provides a concise summary of many potential processes by which stem cells might be effective in treating Parkinson's disease. The aim is to support ongoing research and clinical trials focused on using stem cells for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Stem cells; Transplantation; Stem cells therapy

Efecan Cekic, Mehmet Besir Surme, Fatih Akbulut, Rustem Ozturk, Mehmet Erkan Ustun,
Secondary Benefits of Microsurgical Intervention on the Vertebral Artery (V1 Segment) for Refractory Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency: Alleviation of Parkinsonism-Like Symptoms,
World Neurosurgery,
Volume 187,
2024,
Pages e551-e559,
ISSN 1878-8750,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wneu.2024.04.125.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1878875024006983)
Abstract: Objective
The objective of this study was to investigate the outcomes of microneurosurgical interventions on V1 segment of the vertebral artery in patients with refractory vertebrobasilar insufficiency (VBI) due to dolicoarteriopathy and external compressions and to assess the secondary benefits of Parkinsonism-like symptoms.
Methods
Retrospective analysis encompassed 101 patients treated for vertebral artery dolicoarteriopathy or compression-related refractory VBI from 2016 to 2023. Of these, 16 patients exhibited drug-resistant Parkinsonism-like symptoms. The diagnostic evaluation included cerebral computed tomography/magnetic resonance angiography or digital subtraction angiography and brain computed tomography or magnetic resonance perfusion studies, corroborated by preoperative and 6- and 12-month postoperative Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale Part 3 assessments. Data were analyzed through Turkey's “E-nabız” system, employing Stata16 for statistical scrutiny.
Results
A significant reduction in Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale scores was observed (preoperative: 26.75±10.91; 6 months: 23.09±9.24; 12 months: 22.5±8.73; P < 0.001). Postoperative follow-up denoted that 43.7% of patients ceased medication and 50% reduced antiparkinsonian drugs. The microneurosurgical approach resulted in complete remission of VBI-related symptoms in 84.6% of patients, with the rest showing partial or marked improvement. At 6 months postoperation, perfusion studies revealed posterior border zone or cerebellar perfusion enhancements in 81% (13 out of 16) of patients, with full symptom resolution, while the remaining 19% (3 out of 16) showed partial perfusion and clinical improvements, particularly in regions supplied by the posterior cerebellar artery or posterior inferior cerebellar artery. The absence of operative mortality and minimal transient morbidities underscored the procedure's safety.
Conclusions
Microneurosurgery for vertebral artery anomalies in refractory VBI patients, particularly those with concomitant parkinsonian-like syndromes, has demonstrated potential in symptom remission and medication reduction.
Keywords: Dolicoarteriopathy; Kink; Microsurgery; Parkinson; Stenosis; Vertebral artery; Vertebrobasilar insufficiency

Hao Li, Leyi Mei, Xiupeng Nie, Liping Wu, Longbao Lv, Xiaofeng Ren, Jitong Yang, Haonan Cao, Jing Wu, Yuhua Zhang, Yingzhou Hu, Wenchao Wang, Christoph W. Turck, Bingyin Shi, Jiali Li, Lin Xu, Xintian Hu,
The Tree Shrew Model of Parkinson Disease: A Cost-Effective Alternative to Nonhuman Primate Models,
Laboratory Investigation,
Volume 104, Issue 11,
2024,
102145,
ISSN 0023-6837,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.labinv.2024.102145.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0023683724018233)
Abstract: The surge in demand for experimental monkeys has led to a rapid increase in their costs. Consequently, there is a growing need for a cost-effective model of Parkinson disease (PD) that exhibits all core clinical and pathologic phenotypes. Evolutionarily, tree shrews (Tupaia belangeri) are closer to primates in comparison with rodents and could be an ideal species for modeling PD. To develop a tree shrew PD model, we used the 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), a metabolite derived from 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, to induce lesions in dopaminergic neurons of the unilateral substantia nigra. The induced tree shrew model consistently exhibited and maintained all classic clinical manifestations of PD for a 5-month period. The symptoms included bradykinesia, rest tremor, and postural instability, and ∼50% individuals showed apomorphine-induced rotations, a classic phenotype of unilateral PD models. All these are closely resembled the ones observed in PD monkeys. Meanwhile, this model was also sensitive to L-dopa treatment in a dose-dependent manner, which suggested that the motor deficits are dopamine dependent. Immunostaining showed a significant loss of dopaminergic neurons (∼95%) in the lesioned substantia nigra, which is a crucial PD pathological marker. Moreover, a control group of nigral saline injection did not show any motor deficits and pathological changes. Cytomorphologic analysis revealed that the size of nigral dopaminergic neurons in tree shrews is much bigger than that of rodents and is close to that of macaques. The morphologic similarity may be an important structural basis for the manifestation of the highly similar phenotypes between monkey and tree shrew PD models. Collectively, in this study, we have successfully developed a PD model in a small animal species that faithfully recapitulated the classic clinical symptoms and key pathological indicators of PD monkeys, providing a novel and low-cost avenue for evaluation of PD treatments and underlying mechanisms.
Keywords: Parkinson disease; tree shrew; animal model; clinical symptoms; pathologic hallmarks

Tong Lei, Gaoshuang Fu, Xin Xue, Hongjun Yang,
Tianma Gouteng Decoction improve neuronal synaptic plasticity and oligodendrocyte apoptosis in Parkinson's disease mice,
Phytomedicine,
Volume 140,
2025,
156553,
ISSN 0944-7113,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156553.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S094471132500193X)
Abstract: Background
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex and multifactorial disorder of the nervous system. Tianma Gouteng Decoction (TGD) is a clinical prescription of traditional Chinese medicine for PD, but its neuroprotective effects and mechanisms for PD are poorly understood.
Purpose
The aim of this study was to explore the mechanism of TGD in the treatment of PD.
Study design
Serum pharmacochemistry, single cell sequencing, network pharmacology, and validation experiment were combined to study the effect of TGD in PD model.
Methods
TGD water extract and its distribution in serum of PD mice were analyzed by secondary metabolomics. The crossing blood-brain barrier components and targets were preliminarily identified. Target cells and pathways of TGD were analyzed by network pharmacology and single cell sequencing.
Results
TGD treatment improved the movement disorders in MPTP-induced PD mice, restoring dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra region and suppressing the expression of α-synuclein. We identified 1272 components in TGD, among which 73 were distributed in the serum of PD mice after oral administration. Network pharmacological analysis demonstrated that these components were involved in the regulation of apoptosis, and 15 of them could across the blood-brain barrier and bind to PD pathological proteins. Single nucleus RNA sequencing analysis identified 18 cell subpopulations, and TGD treatment restored the neuron-oligodendrocyte crosstalk. Neurons were identified as the most widely responding target cells, while oligodendrocytes were the core response target cells to TGD therapy. After treatment, the apoptosis of oligodendrocytes was inhibited, and the secretion of trophic factor was enhanced, facilitating the improvement of neuronal synaptic plasticity and neuroinflammation.
Conclusion
This study systematically elucidates the molecular mechanism of TGD improving movement disorders, which is helpful to provide new ideas for drug development of PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Single cell sequencing; Transcriptomics; Network pharmacology; Traditional Chinese medicine; Neuroinflammation

Gianluca Amprimo, Giulia Masi, Gabriella Olmo, Claudia Ferraris,
Deep Learning for hand tracking in Parkinson’s Disease video-based assessment: Current and future perspectives,
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine,
Volume 154,
2024,
102914,
ISSN 0933-3657,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artmed.2024.102914.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0933365724001568)
Abstract: Background:
Parkinson’s Disease (PD) demands early diagnosis and frequent assessment of symptoms. In particular, analysing hand movements is pivotal to understand disease progression. Advancements in hand tracking using Deep Learning (DL) allow for the automatic and objective disease evaluation from video recordings of standardised motor tasks, which are the foundation of neurological examinations. In view of this scenario, this narrative review aims to describe the state of the art and the future perspective of DL frameworks for hand tracking in video-based PD assessment.
Methods:
A rigorous search of PubMed, Web of Science, IEEE Explorer, and Scopus until October 2023 using primary keywords such as parkinson, hand tracking, and deep learning was performed to select eligible by focusing on video-based PD assessment through DL-driven hand tracking frameworks
Results:
After accurate screening, 23 publications met the selection criteria. These studies used various solutions, from well-established pose estimation frameworks, like OpenPose and MediaPipe, to custom deep architectures designed to accurately track hand and finger movements and extract relevant disease features. Estimated hand tracking data were then used to differentiate PD patients from healthy individuals, characterise symptoms such as tremors and bradykinesia, or regress the Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) by automatically assessing clinical tasks such as finger tapping, hand movements, and pronation-supination.
Conclusions:
DL-driven hand tracking holds promise for PD assessment, offering precise, objective measurements for early diagnosis and monitoring, especially in a telemedicine scenario. However, to ensure clinical acceptance, standardisation and validation are crucial. Future research should prioritise large open datasets, rigorous validation on patients, and the investigation of new frontiers such as tracking hand-hand and hand-object interactions for daily-life tasks assessment.
Keywords: Hand tracking; Deep learning; Parkinson’s disease; MDS-UPDRS; Computer vision; Bradykinesia; Tremor

Beatriz Godínez-Chaparro, Maria Cristina Rodríguez-Ramos, María Guadalupe Martínez-Lorenzana, Estefanía González-Morales, Karen Pamela Pérez-Ruíz, Antonio Espinosa de los Monteros-Zuñiga, Felipe Mendoza-Pérez, Miguel Condes-Lara,
Pramipexole decreases allodynia and hyperalgesia via NF-κB in astrocytes in rats with Parkinson's disease,
Pharmacology Biochemistry and Behavior,
Volume 247,
2025,
173945,
ISSN 0091-3057,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pbb.2024.173945.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0091305724002399)
Abstract: Pain is one of the principal non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), negatively impacting the patient's quality of life. This study aimed to demonstrate whether an effective dose of pramipexole (PPX) can modulate the NF-κB/p-p65 activation in glial cells (astrocytes and microglia) and diminish the hypersensitivity (allodynia and hyperalgesia) in male Wistar rats with PD. For this, 2 μl of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA, 8 μg/μL/0.2 μl/min) was administered unilaterally in the Substantia Nigra of the Pars Compacta (SNpc) to establish a PD model rat. Motor behavioral tests were used to validate the PD model, and von Frey filaments were used to evaluate allodynia and hyperalgesia. Immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence were used to analyze the level of tyrosine hydroxylase in SNpc and striatum as well as the expression of GFAP, Iba-1, NF-κB/p-65 in the L4-L6 spinal cord dorsal horn. Unilateral 6-OHDA-lesion reduces motor capacity and produces long-term allodynia and hyperalgesia in both hind paws. L4-L6 spinal cord dorsal horn astrocytes and microglia were active in these 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. Moreover, PPX (1 and 3 mg/Kg, i.p./10 days, n = 10 per group) inhibited the bilateral mechanical hypersensitivity, and PPX (3 mg/Kg/i.p./10 days) reduced 6-OHDA-induced astrocyte and microglia activation, as well as reduced NF-κB/p-p65 expression only in astrocytes of dorsal horn spinal cord in the L5-L6. These findings suggest that PPX could alleviate pain by decreasing the activation of microglia and astrocytes through the NF-κB/p-p65 pathway in the dorsal horn spinal cord. Therefore, PPX could be considered an optional tool for improving pain hypersensitivity in PD patients.
Keywords: Pain; Allodynia; Hyperalgesia; NF-κB; Astrocytes; Microglia; Pramipexol; Parkinson's disease

Alfonso Fasano, Avery Kundrick, Claire Henchcliffe,
Convention vs. innovation III: The promise of stem cell therapy in Parkinson's disease remains bright,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 136,
2025,
107849,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107849.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802025005905)

Ning Xu, Chenchen Du, Yuan Yu, Yile Li, Shixuan Gao, Shuyan Yu, Baozhu Sun, Haiyan Lou,
Urolithin A improves Parkinson's disease-associated cognitive impairment through modulation of neuroinflammation and neuroplasticity,
Experimental Neurology,
Volume 393,
2025,
115395,
ISSN 0014-4886,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115395.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014488625002596)
Abstract: Cognitive impairment is one of the most common disabling non-motor manifestations of Parkinson's disease (PD), an age-onset condition for which there are no effective therapies available to date. Urolithin A (UA) is a natural compound produced by gut bacteria from ingested ellagitannins (ETs) and ellagic acid (EA). Our previous study showed that UA ameliorates motor deficits and dopaminergic neurodegeneration in experimental models of PD. However, its effect on PD non-motor symptoms has not been elucidated. This study aims to explore the effect of UA on cognitive impairment in MPTP-induced PD mouse model as well as in transgenic mice that overexpresses human A53T mutant α-synuclein (A53T mice). Treatment with UA reversed cognitive dysfunction as measured by Morris water maze, Y maze and novel object recognition tests in both PD models. Enhanced cognition was associated with decreased neuroinflammation in the hippocampus. Additionally, UA also reduced hippocampal neuronal dendritic spine loss and synaptic damage. Further mechanistic analyses revealed that the beneficial effects of UA on cognitive impairment appears to involve the activation of the highly protective AKT/CREB/BDNF signaling pathway. Collectively, these findings strongly suggest that UA mitigates cognitive deficits in both MPTP-induced PD mouse model and A53T mice by reducing neuroinflammation and sustaining neuroplasticity. This study provides the first evidence for a potential therapeutic effect of UA on cognitive impairment in vivo, and supports further assessment for the possible use of UA as a dietary supplement to prevent cognitive deficits in PD, and related neurodegenerative diseases.
Keywords: Non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease; Cognitive function；synaptic plasticity

Vibuthi Sisodia, Rosalie Ursinus, Gert J. Geurtsen, Yarit Wiggerts, Peter Richard Schuurman, Martijn Beudel, Rob M.A. de Bie, Bart E.K.S. Swinnen,
Impact of Preoperative Cognition on Motor Improvement in Bilateral Subthalamic Nucleus-Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's Disease,
Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface,
Volume 28, Issue 3,
2025,
Pages 484-491,
ISSN 1094-7159,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurom.2024.07.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S109471592400672X)
Abstract: Objective
This study aimed to assess the influence of preoperative cognition on postoperative motor and nonmotor outcomes in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) after deep brain stimulation (DBS).
Materials and Methods
A retrospective study was performed in subjects with PD with bilateral subthalamic DBS. Preoperative cognition was indexed by Parkinson’s Disease-Cognitive Rating Scale (PD-CRS) and global neuropsychological evaluation (NPE) scores. The primary outcome was change from baseline to postoperative off-drug Movement Disorders Society Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) part 3 score. Secondary outcomes included change from baseline to postoperative MDS-UPDRS part 1 subscores.
Results
The study included 226 subjects; 176 patients (77.9%) had normal cognition (PD-NC); 48 (21.2%) had mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and two (0.9%) had PD dementia. Proportional change (−41.4% vs −52.2%, p = 0.013) in off-drug MDS-UPDRS part 3 score was smaller in PD-MCI than in PD-NC. PD-CRS (Pearson’s r = 0.236, p < 0.001) and NPE (Pearson’s r = 0.219, p < 0.001) scores displayed a positive correlation with proportional change in off-drug MDS-UPDRS part 3 score. Worse PD-CRS scores were related to larger improvements in MDS-UPDRS part 1.2 (hallucinations) (Pearson’s r = 0.135, p = 0.045).
Conclusions
DBS induces a clinically meaningful motor improvement in patients with cognitive impairment and PD, but the improvement may be smaller than in patients who are not cognitively affected. Further research into the risk-benefit balance of DBS in people with PD and cognitive dysfunction is warranted.
Keywords: Cognition; deep brain stimulation; motor improvement; Parkinson disease

Christoffer Olsson, Mikael Skorpil, Per Svenningsson, Rodrigo Moreno,
Effects of Parkinson’s disease on mechanical and microstructural properties of the brain,
NeuroImage: Clinical,
Volume 48,
2025,
103857,
ISSN 2213-1582,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nicl.2025.103857.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213158225001275)
Abstract: Magnetic Resonance Elastography (MRE) is a novel technique to study the brain by measuring its mechanical properties, such as stiffness and viscosity. These properties may provide insights into how the microstructure of the brain changes due to a pathology, however the connection between these microstructural mechanisms and the measured biomechanical properties are still largely unknown. For this reason, the present exploratory study utilizes multidimensional diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MD-dMRI), apart from MRE, to extract microstructural parameters of the whole brain tissue for a small cohort of 12 Parkinson disease (PD) patients and 17 healthy controls. A combination of these methods provides valuable insights into subtle changes due to PD as it probes variables such as microscopic fractional anisotropy (μFA) combined with measures of shear stiffness. MRE and MD-dMRI quantities across the brain are compared between the two groups and analyzed. It was found that there were significant softening effects in the temporal and occipital lobes due to PD, associated with an increase in the mean diffusivity in those regions, whereas other microstructural properties remained largely unchanged. The mesencephalon, on the other hand, displays changes in the MD-dMRI parameters consistent with neuronal atrophy, however no softening of this region was detected. In most regions, stiffness is significantly reduced due to age, which is correlated with a decrease in μFA and increase in MD. We hypothesize that age effects can mostly explain neuronal atrophy, whereas softening due to PD effects involve additional mechanisms.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Magnetic resonance elastography; Multidimensional diffusion MRI; Microstructure; Diffusion MR

Sol-Hee Lee, Jiae Kim, Han-Joon Kim,
Smartphone Application–Based Voice and Speech Training Program for Parkinson Disease: Feasibility and Satisfaction Study With a Preliminary Rater-Blinded Single-Arm Pretest and Posttest Design,
Journal of Medical Internet Research,
Volume 27,
2025,
,
ISSN 1438-8871,
https://doi.org/10.2196/63166.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1438887125002250)
Abstract: Background
Up to 75% of patients with Parkinson disease (PD) experience voice and speech impairments, such as breathy phonation and low speech volume, which worsen over time and negatively impact the quality of life. However, given their increasingly limited mobility, face-to-face speech therapy is often inaccessible. Mobile health (mHealth) apps offer accessible and cost-effective alternatives; yet, their application in PD-specific, self-delivered voice therapy remains underexplored.
Objective
This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility, adherence, and satisfaction of a self-delivered smartphone app for voice therapy in patients with PD, designed to minimize speech-language pathologist involvement while promoting patient independence. In addition, it seeks to assess the preliminary therapeutic effectiveness of the app in addressing voice and speech problems in this population.
Methods
A single-arm, rater-blinded, and pretest and posttest study was conducted between September to November 2023. Patients with PD with voice and speech problems who have no problem with using Android (Google) smartphones were recruited. Participants downloaded the researcher-developed mHealth app on their smartphone and participated in a patient-tailored 5-week home-based speech training program. Each session included 5 stages: breathing, oral motor exercises, loudness, prosody, and functional speaking. The training program consisted of 20 sessions, with participants completing 1 session per day, 4 days per week. Each session lasted approximately 20-30 minutes. Adherence was monitored through app logs, satisfaction was assessed through a phone survey, and therapeutic effectiveness was evaluated using acoustic analysis and auditory-perceptual assessments.
Results
Out of 30 patients were initially recruited, but 2 of them withdrew. Out of 25 participants completed all the training sessions while 3 dropped out. The adherence was above 90% in 20 participants (80%, 20/25), 70% to 90% in 4 (16%, 4/25), and below 70% in 4 (16%, 4/25). Satisfaction was 75% (18/24) among the 24 people who participated in the survey. Significant improvements were observed in all acoustic measures: the maximum phonation time increased from 11.15 (SD 5.38) seconds to 14.01 (SD 5.64) seconds (P=.003), and vocal intensity increased from 71.59 (SD 4.39) dB to 73.81 (SD 3.48) dB (P<.001) across both sustained phonation and reading tasks. Voice quality scores on the GRBAS (grade, roughness, breathiness, asthenia, and strain) scale improved significantly (all components P<.001). Furthermore, 58.3% (14/24) of participants reported subjective improvements in their voice.
Conclusions
This study demonstrates that home-based, self-training speech therapy delivered through a mHealth app is a feasible solution for patients with PD, suggesting that mHealth apps can serve as a convenient and effective alternative to face-to-face therapy by enhancing accessibility and empowering patients to actively manage their condition.
Keywords: Parkinson disease; speech therapy; mHealth; home-based training; self-delivered; digital health care; app; feasibility; voice therapy; mobile phone; satisfaction; effectiveness; smartphone; apps; single-arm study; mobility; mobile health; acoustic analysis; self-training

Bowen Chang, Zhi Geng, Jiaming Mei, Zhengyu Wang, Peng Chen, Yuge Jiang, Chaoshi Niu,
Application of multimodal deep learning and multi-instance learning fusion techniques in predicting STN-DBS outcomes for Parkinson's disease patients,
Neurotherapeutics,
Volume 21, Issue 6,
2024,
e00471,
ISSN 1878-7479,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00471.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1878747924001582)
Abstract: Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with substantial impact on patients' quality of life. Subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) is an effective treatment for advanced PD, but patient responses vary, necessitating predictive models for personalized care. Recent advancements in medical imaging and machine learning offer opportunities to enhance predictive accuracy, particularly through deep learning and multi-instance learning (MIL) techniques. This retrospective study included 127 PD patients undergoing STN-DBS. Medical records and imaging data were collected, and patients were categorized based on treatment outcomes. Advanced segmentation models were trained for automated region of interest (ROI) delineation. A novel 2.5D deep learning approach incorporating multi-slice representation was developed to extract detailed ROI features. Multi-instance learning fusion techniques integrated predictions across multiple slices, combining radiomics and deep learning features to enhance model performance. Various machine learning algorithms were evaluated, and model robustness was assessed using cross-validation and hyperparameter optimization. The MIL model achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.846 for predicting STN-DBS outcomes, surpassing the radiomics model's AUC of 0.825. Integration of MIL and radiomics features in the DLRad model further improved discriminative ability to an AUC of 0.871. Calibration tests showed good model reliability, and decision curve analysis demonstrated clinical utility, affirming the model's predictive advantage. This study demonstrates the efficacy of integrating MIL, radiomics, and deep learning techniques to predict STN-DBS outcomes in PD patients. The multimodal fusion approach enhances predictive accuracy, supporting personalized treatment planning and advancing patient care.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Deep brain stimulation; Deep learning; Multi-instance; Prediction model

Sana Mohammadi, Sadegh Ghaderi,
Parkinson's disease and Parkinsonism syndromes: Evaluating iron deposition in the putamen using magnetic susceptibility MRI techniques - A systematic review and literature analysis,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 7,
2024,
e27950,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e27950.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024039811)
Abstract: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques, such as quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM) and susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI), can detect iron deposition in the brain. Iron accumulation in the putamen (PUT) can contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) and atypical Parkinsonian disorders. This systematic review aimed to synthesize evidence on iron deposition in the PUT assessed by MRI susceptibility techniques in PD and Parkinsonism syndromes. The PubMed and Scopus databases were searched for relevant studies. Thirty-four studies from January 2007 to October 2023 that used QSM, SWI, or other MRI susceptibility methods to measure putaminal iron in PD, progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), multiple system atrophy (MSA), and healthy controls (HCs) were included. Most studies have found increased putaminal iron levels in PD patients versus HCs based on higher quantitative susceptibility. Putaminal iron accumulation correlates with worse motor scores and cognitive decline in patients with PD. Evidence regarding differences in susceptibility between PD and atypical Parkinsonism is emerging, with several studies showing greater putaminal iron deposition in PSP and MSA than in PD patients. Alterations in putaminal iron levels help to distinguish these disorders from PD. Increased putaminal iron levels appear to be associated with increased disease severity and progression. Thus, magnetic susceptibility MRI techniques can detect abnormal iron accumulation in the PUT of patients with Parkinsonism. Moreover, quantifying putaminal susceptibility may serve as an MRI biomarker to monitor motor and cognitive changes in PD and aid in the differential diagnosis of Parkinsonian disorders.
Keywords: QSM; SWI; Putamen; Iron; Parkinson's disease; Parkinsonism

Wei Ji, Yuchen Fu, Huifen Zheng, Yun Li,
Multi-label speech feature selection for Parkinson’s Disease subtype recognition using graph model,
Computers in Biology and Medicine,
Volume 185,
2025,
109566,
ISSN 0010-4825,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109566.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010482524016512)
Abstract: Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is the second-most common neurodegenerative disorder. There is a certain pathological connection between PD and dysphonia. Speech signals have been successfully used to identify PD and predict its severity. Moreover, PD has several subtypes, such as tremor, freezing of gait and dysphagia. The recognition of subtypes is of great significance for the diagnosis and treatment of PD. In this paper, we consider PD subtype recognition as a multi-label learning task and try to simultaneously recognize these subtypes using speech signals. In the proposed recognition framework, multiple types of speech data are collected, such as/a/,/pa-ka-la/, etc., and different speech features are extracted from different types of speech data. The features are concatenated as the representation of speech data. Especially, a multi-label speech feature selection algorithm based on graph structure is proposed to choose the key features and followed by a multi-label classifier for PD subtype recognition. The speech samples of 70 PD patients are collected as speech corpus. Experimental results show that the proposed multi-label feature selection method can obtain higher recognition performance than other classical ones in most cases.
Keywords: Multi-label feature selection; Parkinson’s Disease subtype recognition; Speech signal processing

Louis Albert, Fosco Bernasconi, Jevita Potheegadoo, Olaf Blanke,
Home-based online line bisection test detects visuo-spatial neglect and pseudoneglect in Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 130,
2025,
107195,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107195.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024012070)
Abstract: Introduction
Parkinson's Disease (PD) may lead to cognitive symptoms, including visuo-spatial attentional deficits such as unilateral spatial neglect (USN). Although there is some evidence for USN in PD patients, especially in those with left-sided onset of motor-symptoms (LPD), previous studies revealed inconsistent and highly variable results in neglect tasks using line bisection and have not systematically compared LPD with RPD (PD patients with right-sided onset) or healthy controls (HC).
Methods
We designed a fully automatized online web-based line bisection task and tested a group of 170 PD patients (81 RPD, 66 LPD) and 45 HC.
Results
Our data reveals (1) a rightward bias on line bisection in LPD compared to HC and RPD, (2) right-sided pseudoneglect in HC as well as RPD. Our data also reveals that (3) PD patients, independent of the primarily affected side, are more variable in their line bisections.
Conclusion
These data provide robust evidence for systematic changes in visuo-spatial perception in PD and present a new online diagnosis and monitoring tool for USN to evaluate patients at their home.
Keywords: Web-based assessment; Spatial attention; Perception; Neurodegeneration

Young Cha, Pierre Leblanc, Kwang-Soo Kim,
A new era in regenerative medicine: Cell replacement therapy for Parkinson’s disease is on the horizon,
Cell Stem Cell,
Volume 32, Issue 6,
2025,
Pages 864-866,
ISSN 1934-5909,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stem.2025.05.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1934590925001857)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD), characterized by the selective loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons (mDANs), is a promising target for cell replacement therapy. Two recent clinical trials1,2 published in Nature report the safety and potential efficacy of human pluripotent stem cell-based approaches, representing a major milestone in regenerative medicine for PD.

Shreya Adangale, Alok D. Singh, Yogesh A. Kulkarni, Sarika Wairkar,
Brain-targeted nasal chrysin microemulsion for reducing oxidative stress in Parkinson's disease: Pharmacodynamic, biochemical evaluation and brain distribution studies,
Journal of Drug Delivery Science and Technology,
Volume 97,
2024,
105756,
ISSN 1773-2247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jddst.2024.105756.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1773224724004258)
Abstract: Chrysin, a flavone reported to treat Parkinson's, has limited oral bioavailability due to poor solubility and extensive pre-systemic metabolism. Therefore, a chrysin microemulsion (Chy-ME) was developed to improve bioavailability and brain targeting for treating Parkinson's disease via the nasal route. Chy-ME was prepared using the phase titration method and characterized for physicochemical parameters, nasociliotoxicity, and anti-Parkinson activities in a rotenone-induced experimental rat model. Chy-ME showed spherical globules with a size of 365.03 nm ± 6.8, a PDI of 0.107 ± 0.0316 and a zeta potential of −24.86 mV ± 2.286. It was non-irritant to the nasal mucosa and had in vitro and ex vivo drug release of 90.52 % and 68.67 %, respectively at 24 h. The in vivo study showed significantly improved locomotor activity and catalepsy score in the Chy-ME treated group than in oral or nasal chrysin suspension groups in rats. Chy-ME treatment showed elevated dopamine levels than the other two groups. Also, enhanced oxidative stress markers, i.e., SOD, GSH, and catalase levels, indicated the antioxidant potential of Chy-ME linked with preventing neuronal damage in Parkinson's. The maximum chrysin amount was estimated in the Chy-ME group (8.3212 ± 1.8125 μg/mL) than in oral (4.1364 ± 1.1095 μg/mL) or nasal (5.0879 ± 0.0058 μg/mL) suspension groups in the brain distribution study. In vivo studies revealed the brain-targeting potential of Chy-ME, evidenced by a substantial alleviation of Parkinson's symptoms, increased dopamine levels, improved oxidative stress markers and higher chrysin content in the brain. Therefore, nasal delivery of chrysin could overcome poor oral bioavailability and be explored for treating Parkinson-related symptoms as a brain-targeted approach.
Keywords: Chrysin; Microemulsion; Improved bioavailability; Nasal delivery; Brain targeting

Sagari Betté, Joyce Qian, Hannah Cummings, Hiroo Shimoda, Katsumi Shinoda, Ashley Thai, Sarah Batson, Gabrielle Redhead, Alexander Hodkinson, Daniel Truong,
Comparative safety of istradefylline in Parkinson’s disease: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials and real-world studies,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 12,
2025,
100307,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2025.100307.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112525000118)
Abstract: Introduction
Istradefylline offers a novel mechanism (adenosine A2A receptor antagonism) to treat OFF episodes in Parkinson’s disease (PD). It may potentially offer improved tolerability versus other adjuncts, but comparative safety data are lacking.
Methods
A systematic review and Bayesian network meta-analysis (NMA) incorporating RCTs of PD adjuncts until January 10, 2024, was conducted to estimate relative safety. Inconsistency was assessed and heterogeneity evaluated by global I2-statistic and between-study heterogeneity. Incidences of safety outcomes were summarized from RWE identified according to the same criteria.
Results
100 RCTs and 55 RWE publications were identified; 76 RCTs were included in NMAs. Istradefylline demonstrated lower odds of serious AEs (odds ratio [OR] = 0.56; 95 % CrI: 0.32, 0.99), treatment-emergent AEs (0.43; 0.25, 0.73), treatment-related AEs (0.33; 0.19, 0.56), hallucinations (0.25; 0.06, 0.97), and withdrawal due to AEs (0.37; 0.19, 0.68) versus amantadine. Istradefylline showed lower odds of dyskinesia (0.63; 0.41, 0.99) and hypotension (0.19; 0.03, 0.82) versus catechol-O-methyl transferase inhibitors (COMTi), lower odds of nausea (0.58; 0.33, 0.99) versus dopamine agonists (DA), and lower odds of hypotension (0.09; 0.01, 0.52) versus monoamine oxidase-B inhibitors (MAO-Bi). Sensitivity analysis of RCTs published since 2000 found a reduction in odds of dyskinesia and hallucinations for istradefylline versus DA. RWE were heterogeneous but demonstrated lower incidence of certain AEs with istradefylline, specifically dyskinesia (versus MAO-Bi), somnolence (versus DA and COMTi), peripheral edema and hallucinations (versus amantadine), and nausea (versus all comparators).
Conclusion
Istradefylline exhibits a favorable safety profile versus other PD adjuncts, as demonstrated by RCTs and RWE.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Comparative safety; Network meta-analysis; Systematic literature review; Adjunctive therapies

Cuihua Lv, Lizhou Fan, Haiyun Li, Jun Ma, Wenjing Jiang, Xin Ma,
Leveraging multimodal deep learning framework and a comprehensive audio-visual dataset to advance Parkinson’s detection,
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,
Volume 95, Part A,
2024,
106480,
ISSN 1746-8094,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2024.106480.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S174680942400538X)
Abstract: Objective:
In the pursuit of enhancing PD detection, this study introduces an advanced, fully automated video-based model leveraging a comprehensive audio-visual dataset.
Methods:
We address the challenge of objectively capturing hypokinetic dysarthria, a key early symptom of PD, by collecting and analyzing a substantial dataset comprising audio-visual samples from 130 PD patients and 90 healthy participants. This large-scale dataset is critical in filling the existing gap in resources for PD research. Our approach utilizes a novel audio-visual fusion model, which integrates two distinct branches for extracting visual features and audio Mel-spectrogram features, both strongly correlated with PD. The integration of these features is achieved through a sophisticated Transformer-based cross-attention module, to effectively learn the complementarity between audio and visual cues.
Results:
This integrated approach significantly enhances PD detection accuracy, achieving a rate of 92.68%, which surpasses the performance of conventional machine learning and deep learning models in PD diagnosis. The incorporation of visual information alongside audio data is also proven to be more effective in detecting PD than relying solely on speech signals, demonstrating the potential of our cross-attention fusion model in the broader clinical settings.
Conclusion and Significance:
This study contributes to the digital diagnosis of PD based on audio-visual features. The performance of the proposed model is verified through experiments. These results can help doctors make preliminary diagnosis of patients and even remote diagnosis.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Cross-attention mechanism; Audio-visual fusion; Assessment of hypokinetic dysarthria

Wen Cheng, Kexin Fang, Xiaorong Ouyang, Lingjing Jin, Yunping Song, Bin Yu,
Vagus nerve stimulation with a small total charge transfer improves motor behavior and reduces neuroinflammation in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease,
Neurochemistry International,
Volume 180,
2024,
105871,
ISSN 0197-0186,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuint.2024.105871.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0197018624001980)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). Conventional treatments are ineffective in reversing disease progression. Recently, the therapeutic and rehabilitation potential of vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) in PD has been explored. However, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of VNS in a lateral lesioned mice model of PD. Excluding controls, experimental mice received cuff electrode implantation on the left vagus nerve and 6-hydroxydopamine administration into the bilateral striatum. After ten days, electrical stimulation was delivered for 11 consecutive days onto PD animals. Behavioral tests were performed after stimulation. The expression of TH, Iba-1, GFAP, adrenergic receptors and cytokines in the SN and striatum was detected by immunofluorescence or western blotting. The activity of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus (LC) was also measured. Our results suggest that VNS improved behavioral performance in rod rotation, open field tests and pole-climbing tests in PD mice, accompanied by a decrease in the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the SN and increased TH expression in the striatum. Neuroinflammation-related factors, such as GFAP, Iba-1, TNF-α and IL-1β were also suppressed in PD mice after VNS compared to those without treatment. Furthermore, the proportion of c-Fos-positive noradrenergic neurons in the LC increased when animals received VNS. Additionally, the expression of the adrenergic receptor of α1BR was also upregulated after VNS compared to PD mice. In conclusion, VNS has potential as a novel PD therapy for neuroprotective effects, and indicate that activation of norepinephric neurons in LC may plays an important role in VNS treatment for PD.
Keywords: Vagus nerve stimulation; Parkinson's disease; Neuroinflammation; Substantia nigra; Animal model; Invasive

Maryam Kamarehei, Hamid Zahednasab,
Neuroprotective effect of Ac-SDKP peptide in SH-SY5Y cells and rat model of Parkinson's disease against 6-OHDA-induced oxidative stress and ER stress,
Neuropeptides,
Volume 112,
2025,
102534,
ISSN 0143-4179,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.npep.2025.102534.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143417925000344)
Abstract: Oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress are key contributors to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD), for which no definitive cure currently exists. This study investigated the neuroprotective potential of the N-acetyl-seryl-aspartyl-lysyl-proline (Ac-SDKP) tetrapeptide in both in vitro and in vivo PD models. In cell-based analyses, pre-treatment with 20 nM Ac-SDKP provided significant protection against 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced neurotoxicity in SH-SY5Y cells. In vivo, the neuroprotective potential of the peptide was also supported through daily administration of rats with Ac-SDKP (800 μg/kg) after 6-OHDA lesioning, which unveiled a series of significant observations. Treated animals demonstrated highly preserved dopaminergic neurons through reduced activation of apoptotic markers such as caspase-3 and caspase-12. In addition to cytoprotection, Ac-SDKP also produced striking behavioral improvement. Treated animals exhibited improved motor coordination and ability on spatial memory tasks, as well as the significant attenuation of anxiety-like and depressive-like behaviors. Such behavioral improvement is probable because Ac-SDKP possesses the ability to modulate several pathological features of PD. In fact, the peptide was able to decrease oxidative stress, diminish ER stress, and inhibit neuroinflammatory signaling. Collectively, these findings position Ac-SDKP as a promising neuroprotection candidate, and as a candidate with potential to be developed as a multifactorial treatment for the complex pathophysiology of PD.
Keywords: Oxidative stress; ER stress; Parkinson's disease; Apoptosis; Ac-SDKP peptide

Henry Skelton, Dayton Grogan, Amrutha Kotlure, Ken Berglund, Claire-Anne Gutekunst, Robert Gross,
Adaptive wheel exercise for mouse models of Parkinson’s Disease,
Journal of Neuroscience Methods,
Volume 414,
2025,
110314,
ISSN 0165-0270,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jneumeth.2024.110314.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165027024002590)
Abstract: Background
Physical exercise has been extensively studied for its therapeutic properties in neurological disease, particularly Parkinson’s Disease (PD). However, the established techniques for exercise in mice are not well suited to motor-deficient disease-model animals, rely on spontaneous activity or force exercise with aversive stimuli, and do not facilitate active measurement of neurophysiology with tethered assays. Motorized wheel exercise may overcome these limitations, but has not been shown to reliably induce running in mice.
New method
We developed an apparatus and technique for inducing exercise in mice without aversive stimuli, using a motorized wheel that dynamically responds to subject performance.
Results
A commercially available motorized wheel system did not satisfactorily provide for exercise, as mice tended to avoid running at higher speeds. Our adaptive wheel exercise platform allowed for effective exercise induction in the 6-hydroxydopamine mouse model of PD, including with precise behavioral measurements and synchronized single-unit electrophysiology.
Comparison with existing methods
Our approach provides a superior physical platform and programming strategy compared to previously described techniques for motorized wheel exercise. Unlike voluntary exercise, this allows for controlled experimental induction of running, without the use of aversive stimuli that is typical of treadmill-based techniques.
Conclusions
Adaptive wheel exercise should allow for physical exercise to be better studied as a dynamic, physiological intervention in parkinsonian mice, as well as other neurological disease models.
Keywords: Parkinson’s Disease; 6-hydroxydopamine; Mice; Exercise; Motorized wheel; Electrophysiology

Roger A Barker, Philip C Buttery,
The future of gene therapy for Parkinson's disease,
The Lancet Neurology,
Volume 24, Issue 6,
2025,
Pages 476-477,
ISSN 1474-4422,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00163-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474442225001632)

A. Hemanth Babu, D.S.N.B.K. Prasanth, Deepak A. Yaraguppi, Siva Prasad Panda, Sheikh F. Ahmad, Haneen A. Al-Mazroua, Akula Ruchitha Sai, P. Praveen Kumar,
Antiparkinson potential of khellin on rotenone-induced Parkinson's disease in a zebrafish model: targeting MAO, inflammatory, and oxidative stress markers with molecular docking, MD simulations, and histopathology evidence,
Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology Part C: Toxicology & Pharmacology,
Volume 284,
2024,
109997,
ISSN 1532-0456,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cbpc.2024.109997.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532045624001650)
Abstract: In this study, the antiparkinson effect of khellin (KL) on rotenone-induced Parkinson's disease (PD) was examined in zebrafish. Initially, In silico evaluations, such as drug likeness and ADME/T analysis, confirmed the pharmacological viability of KL. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) analysis revealed stable binding interactions between KL and monamine oxidase B (MAO-B). Molecular docking results for KL and pioglitazone (CCl) revealed binding energies of −6.5 and −10.4 kcal/mol, respectively. Later, molecular dynamics (MD) studies were performed to assess the stability of these complexes, which yielded binding energies of −36.04 ± 55.21 and −56.2 ± 80.63 kJ/mol for KL and CCl, respectively. These results suggest that KL exhibits considerable binding affinity for MAO-B. In In vitro studies, according to the DPPH free radical scavenging assay, KL exhibited significant antioxidant effects, indicating that it can promote redox balance with an IC50 value of 22.68 ± 0.5 μg/ml. In vivo studies and evaluation of locomotor activity, social interaction, histopathology and biochemical parameters were conducted in KL-treated zebrafish to measure SOD and GSH antioxidant activity, the oxidative stress marker malondialdehyde (MDA), the inflammatory marker myeloperoxidase (MPO) and MAO-B. However, while the locomotor and social interaction abilities of the rotenone-treated zebrafish were significantly reduced, KL treatment significantly improved locomotor activity (p < 0.001) and social interaction (p < 0.001). KL alleviated PD symptoms, as indicated by significant increases in SOD (p < 0.01), GSH (p < 0.001), MDA (p < 0.001), MAO-B (p < 0.001) and MPO (p < 0.001) in rotenone-induced PD fish (p<0.001) significantly reduced activities. Histopathological studies revealed that rotenone-induced brain hyperintensity and abnormal cellularity of the periventricular gray matter in the optic tectum were significantly reduced by KL treatment. This study provides a strong basis for developing KL as a new candidate for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, with the prospect of improved safety profiles and efficacy.
Keywords: Khellin (KL); Monoamine oxidase-B (MAOB); Antioxidants; Rotenone; MD simulation; Parkinson's disease

Shanikumar Goyani, Shatakshi Shukla, Minal Mane, M.V. Saranga, Nisha Chandak, Anjali Shinde, Fatema Currim, Jyoti Singh, Rajesh Singh,
Mitochondrial E3 ligase TRIM71 affects mitochondrial complex assembly and sensitizes dopaminergic neuronal cells to apoptosis in Parkinson’s Disease (PD),
The International Journal of Biochemistry & Cell Biology,
Volume 177,
2024,
106689,
ISSN 1357-2725,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biocel.2024.106689.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1357272524001821)
Abstract: Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder that impacts the substantia niagra region of the midbrain leading to impaired motor as well as non-motor symptoms of the central nervous system (CNS). Mitochondrial dysfunction has been characterized as the primary cause of dopaminergic neuronal loss, however, the molecular mechanisms leading to mitochondrial dysfunction are not completely understood. PARKIN, E3 ubiquitin ligase, plays a crucial role in maintaining mitochondrial quality control, albeit the role of other E3 ligases in regulating mitochondrial functions is not understood. In the current study, we explored the implication of TRIM71, E3 ubiquitin ligase, in the modulation of mitochondrial functions and neuronal death in PD stress conditions induced by rotenone and 6-OHDA. Ectopic expression of TRIM71 in SH-SY5Y dopaminergic neuronal cells sensitizes to PD stress-induced cell death, while its knock-down rescues neuronal cell death. TRIM71 turnover is enhanced in neurons under PD stress conditions. TRIM71 predominantly localizes on the outer mitochondrial membrane and translocation increases during PD stress conditions. TRIM71 regulates mitochondrial complex I and IV assembly and activity. TRIM71 knock-down decreases mitochondrial ROS and enhances ATP level as well as mitochondrial membrane potential in PD stress conditions. TRIM71-mediated mitochondrial ROS and cell death were rescued by mitoTEMPO, a mitochondrial-targeted antioxidant. Altogether, the evidence strongly suggests TRIM71-mediated modulation of mitochondrial functions and neuronal apoptosis in PD stress conditions.
Keywords: TRIM71; Parkinson’s disease; Mitochondria; ROS; Cell death

Aline Araujo do Carmo, Suelen Santos da Silva, Jerusa Petróvna Resende Lara, Geovanna Gabrielle de Assis, Patrícia Azevedo Garcia, Felipe Augusto dos Santos Mendes,
Effects of immersive and non- immersive virtual reality on anxiety and cognition in Parkinson's disease: A comparative study,
Journal of Bodywork and Movement Therapies,
Volume 42,
2025,
Pages 34-39,
ISSN 1360-8592,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbmt.2024.11.019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1360859224005205)
Abstract: Introduction
Parkinson's disease (PD) is chronic and progressive, manifested by both motor and non-motor symptoms, such as anxiety. Anxiety occurs in more than 50% of patients. Rehabilitation in PD is more focused on controlling motor symptoms. However, non-motor symptoms affect independence, functionality, and motivation.
Purpose
The present study aimed to compare the effects of immersive virtual reality (IVR) and non-immersive virtual reality (NIVR) training on anxiety and cognition in PD patients.
Methods
Two VR devices were used: Nintendo Wii (NIVR) and Samsung Gear VR (IVR). A convenience sample of 60 participants was distributed into 3 groups: a no intervention control group (CG) and two training groups (IVR and NIVR). All were evaluated at the baseline (T1), 7 days after (T7), and 30 days after training (T30). The Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Semantic Verbal Fluency test (VF), and Digits subtest in reverse order (DR) were evaluated. The intervention protocol consisted of 10 sessions, each lasting 1 h, twice a week, for 5 weeks. According to the motor and cognitive requirements of games, 4 games were selected for each VR system. The Friedman test was used for comparing groups at different times (P ≤ 0.05).
Results
The findings revealed a significant decrease in the BAI score in the IVR group (F = 15 217; p < 0.001) between T1 and T7 (and between T1 and T30. No significant differences were found between T7 and T30. No significant differences were found for the cognition variables.
Conclusion
IVR is a useful and feasible tool for managing anxiety symptoms in patients with PD.

Si-Yi Wang, Meng-Meng Li, Ye Sun, Jia-Tong Wu, Wei Guan, Yi-Kai Jiang, Hong-Yan Yao, Xiao-Xue He, Jiu-jiang Yan, Qing-shan Chen, Li-Li Zhang, Anam Naseem, Xiao-Chi Ma, Hai-Xue Kuang, Bing-You Yang, Yan Liu,
Volatile oils of Schisandra chinensis (Turcz.) Baill alleviates Parkinson's disease by activating the Nrf2 pathway to positively regulate autophagy and oxidative stress,
Bioorganic Chemistry,
Volume 157,
2025,
108277,
ISSN 0045-2068,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108277.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045206825001579)
Abstract: Schisandra chinensis (Turcz.) Baill, which is frequently used in health products and drinks, is recognized for its high content of essential oils that could have protective effects against PD, despite the lack of complete understanding of its pharmacological mechanisms. This research aims to examine how ESC can affect autophagy signaling pathways and activate the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway to effectively decrease oxidative damage, thus shedding light on the possible anti-PD effects of this treatment. The results demonstrated that ESC significantly reduced behavioral issues linked to Parkinson's disease in a mouse model that was induced by MPTP and safeguarded dopaminergic neurons that expressed tyrosine hydroxylase. Moreover, ESC boosted the antioxidant capability of Nrf2, assisted with autophagy processes, and finally decreased protein expression levels of Keap1, HO-1, MAPK, mTOR, and ERK. According to in vitro studies, ESC treatment had a significant reduction in H2O2-induced cytotoxicity and oxidative stress levels, which suggests that Nrf2 targets ESC after treatment. The activation of both autophagy and Nrf2 antioxidant pathways was assessed using western blotting. In conclusion, ESC exhibits the potential to suppress oxidative stress by activating Nrf2 in response to autophagy, which is positioned as a promising pharmaceutical candidate, especially for the management and treatment of PD and related disorders.
Keywords: Schisandra chinensis (Turcz.) Baill; Volatile oils; Parkinson's disease; Anti-oxidant

Dongchen Xu, Chenyu ShenTu, Chuhong Zong, Weiliang Fu, Jiawei Ling, Ping Shao, Xuesong Liu, Yong Chen, Tengfei Xu,
Proteomics based discovery of Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge treating Parkinson's disease through the PINK1/Parkin pathway,
Journal of Ethnopharmacology,
Volume 350,
2025,
120079,
ISSN 0378-8741,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jep.2025.120079.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378874125007664)
Abstract: Ethnopharmacological relevance
Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge, a traditional Chinese medicine, has been utilized in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) for thousands of years, as evidenced by its inclusion in ancient formulas such as YangXue XingNao Tang and XingGan ZhenFeng Tang. However, the underlying mechanisms of its therapeutic effects on PD remain unclear.
Aim of the study
This study aims to evaluate the therapeutic effects of Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge on a rotenone-induced PD rat model and elucidate its mechanism of action.
Methods
To explore the efficacy of Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge extract (SME) in PD, we employed both in vitro and in vivo models using rotenone-induced PC12 cells and rats. Therapeutic effects were assessed through cell viability assays, behavioral tests, and immunohistochemistry. Proteomic analysis and molecular docking experiments were conducted to identify the pathways involved in SME's effects. Immunofluorescence and Western blotting were used to validate the role of mitophagy, while transmission electron microscopy (TEM) provided direct evidence of mitophagy induction by SME.
Results
Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge significantly improved motor dysfunction and mitigated dopaminergic neuron degeneration in the substantia nigra of rotenone-exposed rats. Proteomic analysis revealed significant activation of the PINK1/Parkin pathway following SME treatment. Furthermore, molecular experiments confirmed that SME induces mitophagy, which protects PC12 cells from rotenone-induced damage.
Conclusion
This study demonstrates the therapeutic efficacy of Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge in mitigating PD-related pathologies. Through proteomic and molecular analyses, we identified SME's ability to activate the PINK1/Parkin pathway and promote mitophagy, offering new insights into its mechanism of action in PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge; Proteomics; Mitochondrion; Mitophagy

Maosong Jiang, Yanzhi Liu, Yanlu Cao, Yuzhu Liu, Jiatian Wang, Peixue Li, Shufeng Xia, Yongzhong Lin, Wenlong Liu,
Auxiliary diagnostic method of Parkinson’s disease based on eye movement analysis in a virtual reality environment,
Neuroscience Letters,
Volume 842,
2024,
137956,
ISSN 0304-3940,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neulet.2024.137956.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304394024003343)
Abstract: Eye movement dysfunction is one of the non-motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease (PD). An accurate analysis method for eye movement is an effective way to gain a deeper understanding of the nervous system function of PD patients. However, currently, there are only a few assistive methods available to help physicians conveniently and consistently assess patients suspected of having PD. To solve this problem, we proposed a novel visual behavioral analysis method using eye tracking to evaluate eye movement dysfunction in PD patients automatically. This method first provided a physician task simulation to induce PD-related eye movements in Virtual Reality (VR). Subsequently, we extracted eye movement features from recorded eye videos and applied a machine learning algorithm to establish a PD diagnostic model. Then, we collected eye movement data from 66 participants (including 22 healthy controls and 44 PD patients) in a VR environment for training and testing during visual tasks. Finally, on this relatively small dataset, the results reveal that the Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithm has better classification potential.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Virtual reality; Eye tracking; Machine learning; Support vector machine

Jianmei Chen, Rongqing Luo, Shuang Li, Jinping Shao, Ting Wang, Shumei Xie, Li Xu, Qiuyun You, Shumin Feng, Guoqiang Feng,
A novel NIR fluorescent probe for copper(ii) imaging in Parkinson's disease mouse brain††Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/10.1039/d4sc03445g,
Chemical Science,
Volume 15, Issue 32,
2024,
Pages 13082-13089,
ISSN 2041-6520,
https://doi.org/10.1039/d4sc03445g.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2041652024011179)
Abstract: Abnormal copper ion (Cu2+) levels are considered to be one of the pathological factors of Parkinson's disease (PD), but the internal relationship between Cu2+ and PD progression remains elusive. Visualizing Cu2+ in the brain will be pivotal for comprehending the underlying pathophysiological processes of PD. In this work, a near-infrared (NIR) fluorescent probe, DDAO-Cu, capable of detecting Cu2+ with exceptional sensitivity (about 1.8 nM of detection limit) and selectivity, rapid response (<3 min), and deep tissue penetration, was designed for quantification and visualization of the Cu2+ level. It could detect not only Cu2+ in cells but also the changes in the Cu2+ level in the rotenone-induced cell and zebrafish PD models. Moreover, DDAO-Cu can cross the blood–brain barrier to image Cu2+ in the brain of PD model mice. The imaging result showed a significant increase in Cu2+ levels in brain regions of PD model mice, including the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. Meanwhile, Cu2+ levels in the substantia nigra region were significantly reduced in PD model mice. It revealed the nuanced relationship of Cu2+ levels in different brain regions in the disease and indicated the pathological complexity of PD. Overall, DDAO-Cu represents a novel and practical tool for investigating Cu2+-related physiological and pathological processes underlying Parkinson's disease.

Lanxin Li, Weiwei Gao, Ning Ren, Lei Chen,
IL-2/anti-IL-2 complexes attenuates neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration in mice of experimental Parkinson's disease,
Brain Research Bulletin,
Volume 223,
2025,
111273,
ISSN 0361-9230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111273.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361923025000851)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, with motor and non-motor symptoms being its main clinical manifestations. Neuroinflammation has been shown to involve in pathogenesis of PD. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) in PD exhibited reduction in number and suppressive activity. Existing methods to increase the Tregs remains challenging for clinical application because of the difficulty in Tregs expanding or serious side-effects. Therefore, new approaches still need to be explored to balance the amount and activity of Tregs. In this study, we assessed the protective effects of IL-2/anti-IL-2 complexes (IL-2C) on mouse models of PD induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). And the results showed that IL-2C significantly increased the number of Tregs both in spleen and brain, accompanied by reduced nigral dopaminergic neuron loss and behavioral defects. Besides, IL-2C also attenuated neuroinflammation as observed by diminished glial activation, fewer infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines releasing in the nigral region. Moreover, the protective effects of IL-2C were abolished by pre-treatment of anti-CD25 antibody (PC61), which was used to delete the Tregs. In summary, our results demonstrate that IL-2C-induced Tregs expansion attenuates the dopaminergic neurons loss and the neuroinflammatory response in vivo, suggesting that IL-2C maybe a promising therapeutic target for PD.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; Regulatory T cell; IL-2/anti-IL-2 complexes; Dopaminergic neuron; Microglia; Astrocytes

Aveena M. Desai, Oluwagbohunmi A. Aje, Mary F. Kritzer,
Sex differences distinguish performance in four object recognition-based memory tasks in the Pink1-/- rat model of Parkinson’s disease,
Physiology & Behavior,
Volume 300,
2025,
115034,
ISSN 0031-9384,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physbeh.2025.115034.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031938425002355)
Abstract: Male more than female patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) experience early, sometimes prodromal non-motor deficits involving cognition and memory. These so-called mild impairments predict future risk of freezing, falls and developing PD-related dementia. Moreover, because most treatments are ineffective, these symptoms often persist and progressively worsen. Thus, there are urgent needs to better understand and better treat these signs. The work presented here highlights new ways in which rats with knockout of PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 gene (Pink1-/-) can serve as models that emulate PD’s mild cognitive deficits and their sex differences. Specifically, longitudinal behavioral testing confirmed that male Pink1-/- rats developed significant deficits in Novel Object Recognition and Novel Object Location tasks by 5 months old, but that female Pink1-/- were unimpaired in these and in the Object-in-Place task through testing at 12 months of age. Further, What, Where, When Episodic-like Memory testing showed that deficits in all three memory domains were present in Pink1-/- males by 3 months of age. However, in Pink1-/- females, non-significant episodic memory impairments were first observed at 7 months of age which progressed to significant deficits in ‘What’, ‘Where’ and ‘When’ domains by the time female rats were 12 months old. Together, these data show that Pink1-/- rats model the greater vulnerability of male PD patients to cognitive and memory deficits; the increasing risk for higher-order deficits in female PD patients with age; and other features including the early/earliest onset that distinguishes episodic memory impairments from other at-risk cognitive operations in this disorder.
Keywords: Non-motor deficits; PTEN-induced putative kinase1; Episodic memory; Spatial cognition; Novel object recognition; Novel object location; Object-in-place

Xiaying Lu, Yue Qi, Jinhua Xue, Xiaolu Tang,
Chemogenetic activation of VTA neurons induces anxiety-like behavior in a Parkinson's disease model,
Experimental Neurology,
Volume 393,
2025,
115425,
ISSN 0014-4886,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115425.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0014488625002894)
Abstract: As Parkinson's disease (PD) advances, there may be a compensatory activation of neurons in the ventral midbrain, potentially linked to the manifestation of non-motor symptoms in individuals with PD. These non-motor symptoms, such as anxiety, often precede the onset of motor symptoms, with female patients generally exhibiting higher levels of anxiety. Nonetheless, the precise mechanisms underlying this phenomenon remain inadequately elucidated. The ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the midbrain functions as a pivotal nucleus capable of encoding both positive and negative emotional signals, potentially contributing to the development of anxiety comorbidities in patients with PD. In this study, we utilized a combination of chemogenetics, behavioral assessments, and morphological analyses to demonstrate that the heightened activity of VTA neuron populations, especially dopaminergic neurons induces sex-specific anxiety-related behaviors in mice. This phenomenon may be associated with the activation of the VTA-NAC and VTA-vHPC neural circuits. Our findings highlight the critical role of VTA neuron populations, especially dopaminergic neurons in early PD-related anxiety. They offer a valuable experimental framework for elucidating the neural mechanisms underlying anxiety in PD, thereby establishing a foundation for the development of early intervention strategies.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease (PD); Ventral tegmental area (VTA); Anxiety; Dopaminergic neurons

Xumei Wang, Ke Wu, Ruixin Liu, Kai Wang, Wenyu Xie, Xinyuan Zhai, Shangshen Yang, Xiaoming Wang, Zhixin Tang,
Detection of hypochlorous acid fluctuation via a near-infrared fluorescent probe in Parkinson’s disease cells and mouse models,
Methods,
Volume 238,
2025,
Pages 11-18,
ISSN 1046-2023,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymeth.2025.03.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1046202325000581)
Abstract: Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by excessive reactive halogen species leading to the death of dopaminergic (DA) neurons, which disrupts the coordination of normal physiological structures and functions. Hypochlorous acid (HOCl) is a reactive halogen species whose overproduction is associated with the death of DA neurons. Herein, overproduction of HOCl may be a neurotoxin substance in the pathogenesis of PD. Therefore, it is essential to understand the disease of HOCl in PD model. However, early detection HOCl in PD model remains lacking of effective methods. In this study, a high sensitivity off–on near-infrared probe (MB-HOCl) was designed and synthesized. MB-HOCl showed a quantitative response toward HOCl (0–100 μM) with detection limit of 0.32 μM. Importantly, MB-HOCl was capable of selectively and specially detecting exogenous and endogenous HOCl in PC-12 cells and was successfully used for imaging in PD mice models. All results demonstrate that the probe (MB-HOCl) holds great promise for understanding the disease and diagnosis of HOCl-mediated PD models.
Keywords: Hypochlorous acid; Parkinson’s disease; Imaging; Near-infrared fluorescent probe

Jing Su, Liming Liu, Dalong Wu, Ruonan Wang, Zihan Wang, Enshuo Fan, Qiaoli Xu, Qingyuan Wang, Chunyu Shen, Dexi Zhao,
Association between serum total bilirubin with Parkinson's disease among American adults (NHANES 1999 to 2018),
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 16,
2024,
e36053,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e36053.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024120841)
Abstract: Background
Currently, the existing evidence on the correlation between serum total bilirubin (STB) and Parkinson's disease (PD) is insufficient. The objective of this study was to clarify the relationship between STB levels and PD within the US (United States) population.
Methods
A cross-sectional analysis was conducted using data from 25,637 participants in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 1999–2018. Weighted logistic regression, smooth curve fitting, subgroup analysis, and sensitivity analyses were employed to validate the research objectives.
Results
Among all eligible subjects, the mean age was 57.11 ± 11.78 years. The prevalence of PD was 1.18 % overall, with 47.86 % in males. After adjusting for multiple variables, the odds ratio [OR] (95 % confidence interval [CI]) for PD associated with STB levels in T2 and T3 were 0.59 (95 % CI = 0.40–0.85, p = 0.006) and 0.67 (95 % CI = 0.45–0.99, p = 0.045), respectively, when compared to STB levels in T1. The analysis using restricted cubic splines (RCS) indicated an L-shaped relationship between STB levels and the prevalence of PD (p for nonlinearity = 0.004), with the lowest risk observed at 10.84 μmol/L. Comparable patterns of association were noted in subgroup analyses. Furthermore, consistent findings were derived from additional sensitivity analyses.
Conclusions
Our study findings indicated that the level of STB is significantly negatively correlated with the prevalence of PD. Therefore, more prospective studies need to be designed to prove the causal relationship between them.
Keywords: Serum total bilirubin; Parkinson's disease; NHANES; Cross-sectional study; L-shaped

Qiang-Ming Li, Huan Xu, Xue-Qiang Zha, Feng-Yun Zhang, Jian-Ping Luo,
Polygonatum cyrtonema polysaccharide alleviates dopaminergic neuron apoptosis in Parkinson's disease mouse model via inhibiting oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress,
International Journal of Biological Macromolecules,
Volume 311, Part 3,
2025,
143986,
ISSN 0141-8130,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143986.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141813025045386)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) has become a global health threat as a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Polygonatum cyrtonema polysaccharide (PCP), the main bioactive constituent in P. cyrtonema rhizome, displays various biological activities. However, its antiparkinsonian effect is elusive. Here, the effect of PCP on PD-like pathology was evaluated in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mouse model and its molecular mechanism was further investigated. The results showed that PCP at different dosages significantly improved MPTP-induced weight loss and dyskinesia in PD mice. Moreover, PCP treatment mitigated the dopaminergic neuron loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Analysis of apoptosis-related proteins revealed that PCP markedly decreased the expression levels of Bax and cleaved-caspase 3, and increased the expression level of Bcl-2 in PD mice. Meanwhile, PCP markedly enhanced the activities of antioxidant enzymes superoxidase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and catalase (CAT), reduced malondialdehyde (MDA) content, and reversed the expression of oxidant stress-related proteins Nrf2 and Keap1, in the SNc of PD mice. Furthermore, PCP treatment significantly reduced the MPTP-mediated increase of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-related proteins. These findings suggest that PCP protects against PD-like pathology by mitigating oxidant stress and ER stress-mediated apoptosis of dopaminergic neurons, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent for PD.
Keywords: Polygonatum cyrtonema polysaccharide; Parkinson's disease; Oxidative stress and ER stress

Meng-Meng Li, Mei-Juan Shi, Chen-Chen Feng, Zhong-Yu Yu, Xiao-Fei Bai,  Lu-Lu,
LncRNA KCNQ1OT1 promotes NLRP3 inflammasome activation in Parkinson's disease by regulating pri-miR-186/mature miR-186/NLRP3 axis,
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Molecular Basis of Disease,
Volume 1870, Issue 8,
2024,
167454,
ISSN 0925-4439,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbadis.2024.167454.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925443924004472)
Abstract: Increasing evidence indicated that neuroinflammation was involved in progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) played important roles in regulating inflammatory processes in multiple kinds of human diseases such as cancer diabetes, cardiomyopathy, and neurodegenerative disorders. The mechanisms by which lncRNAs regulated PD related inflammation and dopaminergic neuronal loss have not yet been fully elucidated. In current study, we intended to explore the function and potential mechanism of lncRNA KCNQ1 opposite strand/antisense transcript 1 (KCNQ1OT1) in regulating inflammasome activation in PD. Functional assays confirmed that knockdown of KCNQ1OT1 suppress microglial NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activation and attenuated dopaminergic neuronal loss in PD model mice. As KCNQ1OT1 located in both cytoplasm and nucleus of microglia, we demonstrated that KCNQ1OT1 promoted microglial NLRP3 inflammasome activation by competitive binding with miR-186 in cytoplasm and inhibited pri-miR-186 mediated NLRP3 silencing through recruitment of DiGeorge syndrome critical region gene 8 (DGCR8) in nucleus, respectively. Our study found a novel lncRNA-pri-miRNA/mature miRNA-mRNA regulatory network in microglia mediated NLRP3 inflammasome activation and dopaminergic neuronal loss, provided further insights for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Keywords: Parkinson's disease; KCNQ1OT1; Pri-miR-186; NLRP3 inflammasome; DGCR8

Zhenshan Sun, Pengfei Fu, Shiqing Zhang, Ken Kin Lam Yung,
Bioinformatic identification of risk factors from an immunological viewpoint in idiopathic Parkinson's disease,
Journal of Neurorestoratology,
Volume 13, Issue 2,
2025,
100177,
ISSN 2324-2426,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnrt.2024.100177.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2324242624000846)
Abstract: Background
In the present study, we focused on uncovering stable genetic alterations associated with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) in blood samples. We aimed to identify factors that connect IPD to the peripheral immune system, thereby deepening our understanding of the pathophysiology of this disease.
Methods
A gene expression microarray dataset (GSE99039) was selected from the National Center for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression Omnibus database to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Subsequent analyses included Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses. A protein–protein interaction network was then constructed to identify hub genes within these DEGs. Additionally, we used a verification dataset (GSE160299) to test the consistency of the expression level changes of the hub genes.
Results
We identified 277 DEGs, comprising 270 downregulated genes and 7 upregulated genes. The functional enrichment results revealed a close association between IPD and changes in peripheral immune status. Five hub genes—HLA-F, HLA-E, KIR3DL2, KIR3DL1, and TYROBP—were identified, and the expression level changes remained stable in the verification set.
Conclusions
Our findings help to clarify the regulatory pathways that connect peripheral immunity to IPD pathogenesis. We identified five key hub genes in the blood as IPD-related factors; all five genes were also significantly altered in an independent clinical dataset.
Keywords: Idiopathic Parkinson's disease; Hub genes; Bioinformatics; Peripheral immunity

Tingting Liu, Jingwen Li, Haojie Wu, Junbo Qiao, Jianshe Wei,
Unraveling Parkinson's disease: The mystery of mitochondria and the role of aging,
Genes & Diseases,
2025,
101719,
ISSN 2352-3042,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gendis.2025.101719.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352304225002089)
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder that poses significant burden on patients and families. Its exact cause is unknown, resulting in limited effective treatments. Mitochondrial dysfunction, linked to genetics, aging, oxidative stress, and environmental factors, is central to PD. Healthy elderly individuals have a compensatory mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mechanism in brain cells, but this mechanism is impaired in PD patients, leading to mtDNA reduction, respiratory chain dysfunction, decreased adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis, and inadequate neuron energy. Aging increases oxidative stress, impairing mitochondrial function. Mitochondrial dysfunction in the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra causes neuronal loss and disease progression. Aging microglia also play a crucial role, with a reduced capacity to clear neurotoxic substances, especially in the substantia nigra. A decrease in triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) gene expression shifts microglia to a pro-inflammatory phenotype, exacerbating neuroinflammatory responses and protein deposition. Down-regulation of the C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CX3CL1)/C-X3-C chemokine receptor 1 (CX3CR1) signaling pathway increases the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, accelerating neuronal loss and disease progression. Recent research has identified a new astrocyte aging regulatory mechanism involving the cyclic GMP‒AMP synthase (cGAS)/stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling pathway, promoting astrocyte aging and exacerbating dopamine neuronal loss and motor dysfunction. Understanding PD pathogenesis, especially mitochondrial dysfunction, aging, and glial cell changes, is crucial for developing effective treatments.
Keywords: Aging; Astrocytes; Microglia; Mitochondrial dysfunction; Parkinson's disease

Yimeng Zhao, Yuqing Ma, Lijuan Xiong, Jiaxuan Ai, Xing Wang, Xiaoqing Chen, Yaonan Wang, Yinying Ba, Xia Wu,
Neuroprotective effect of the herbal pair Coptidis Rhizoma-Cinnamomi Cortex against 6-OHDA-induced Parkinson's disease rats through promotion of autophagy via the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway,
Journal of Ethnopharmacology,
Volume 355, Part A,
2026,
120582,
ISSN 0378-8741,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jep.2025.120582.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378874125012747)
Abstract: Ethnopharmacological relevance
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder with a universal and fast-growing increase in both prevalence and incidence worldwide. Coptidis Rhizoma-Cinnamomi Cortex (CR-CC), a classic herbal pair comprising the Jiaotai Pill, has been widely used in clinical practice to improve PD and its associated symptoms including anxiety and insomnia. However, the mechanism of the action of CR-CC in improving PD remains to be fully elucidated.
Aim of the study
To investigate the therapeutic effect of CR-CC against PD rats and the relevant mechanism.
Materials and methods
A rat model of PD was established through unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the striatum. The therapeutic effects were evaluated by three kinds of behavioral tests, the levels of oxidative stress markers, and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The neurotransmitters and their metabolites were determined by UPLC-MS/MS. Immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and western blotting were conducted to detect the TH expression and α-Synuclein (α-Syn) level in the substantia nigra (SN). The potential targets and related signaling pathways were analyzed and predicted using network pharmacology analysis and molecular docking, and the expression of LC3II/LC3I, p62, and the proteins related to PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways in the SN of PD rats was assessed by western blotting.
Results
CR-CC ameliorated motor dysfunction and oxidative damage in the serum of PD rats and modulated the neurotransmitter levels of the striatum on the injured side. It also attenuated the dopaminergic neuronal loss and abnormal aggregation of α-Syn in the SN, showing similar effects compared with CR and CC administration alone. Network pharmacology and molecular docking analysis suggested that MTOR, PIK3CA, and MAPK3 related to autophagy would be the core targets for the active compounds of CR-CC. Further studies showed that CR-CC increased the LC3II/LC3I ratio, decreased the p62 level, and regulated the expression of proteins related to the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway in PD rats.
Conclusion
The results showed that CR-CC exerted neuroprotective effects by regulating autophagy through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway to reduce the α-Syn level in the SN of PD rats and showed similar effects to those of CR and CC alone.
Keywords: Coptidis rhizoma; Cinnamomi cortex; Herbal pair; Parkinson's disease; PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway

Sudhamoy Roy, Violina Kakoty, Amirhossein Sahebkar, Shadab Md, Prashant Kesharwani,
Environmental pollutants and alpha-synuclein toxicity in Parkinson’s disease,
Pathology - Research and Practice,
Volume 263,
2024,
155605,
ISSN 0344-0338,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prp.2024.155605.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0344033824005168)
Abstract: Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive neurodebilitating disorder that affects both motor and non-motor functions. PD is the second most commonly occurring brain disorder after Alzheimer’s disease. The incidence rate of PD was found to be 17 per 100000 per year. The prevalence of the disease is at its peak at age 70 and older. One of the major reasons for the failure to devise a complete therapeutic cure for PD is an inability to identify the exact pathological cause. Recent research has also stated that PD originates in the gut way before the symptoms begin to manifest in an affected person. This might be due to the transmission of pathological alpha-synuclein (α-syn) from the gut to the brain via the vagus nerve. The involvement of toxic environmental exposure in the generation of major disorders like cancer, brain disorders etc, is not an entirely new notion. Our genes are affected directly by the environment. Simultaneously, a number of environmental pollutants may contribute significantly to the trigger of alpha-synuclein misfolding in the brain during PD. In the present review, we will mainly focus on understanding the pathological cascade of PD and how it is triggered by environmental pollutants.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Alpha-synuclein; Brain; Environmental pollutants; Diseases

Xiaoming Zhang, Can Yu, Rui Yan,
ParTRE: A relational triple extraction model of complicated entities and imbalanced relations in Parkinson’s disease,
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,
Volume 152,
2024,
104624,
ISSN 1532-0464,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2024.104624.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S153204642400042X)
Abstract: The relational triple extraction of unstructured medical texts about Parkinson’s disease is critical for the construction of a medical knowledge graph. However, the triple entities in Parkinson’s disease are usually complicated and overlapped, which impedes the accuracy of triple extraction, especially in the case of rarely available corpus. Therefore, this study first builds a corpus about Parkinson’s disease. Then, a tagging-based three-stage relational triple extraction model is proposed, named ParTRE. To enhance the contextual representation of sentences, the proposed model employs BiLSTM modules to capture fine-grained semantic information. Additionally, a conditional normalization layer is used so that entity pairs can be extracted accurately from two complementary directions. As for the imbalanced relationship categories, an adaptive loss function strategy based on focal loss is derived by assigning different weights to relationship categories and reducing the loss of easy-to-classify samples. The model performance is evaluated on the Parkinson’s corpus and public datasets. The results indicate that the proposed model achieves an overall F1-score of 93.3 % on the Parkinson’s corpus and comparable performance on public datasets compared with the state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, a satisfactory result is achieved by the proposed model on conquering the overlapped entities and imbalanced relationship categories. Owing to demonstrated availability and validity, the proposed method can be integrated with medical knowledge graphs and therefore benefits medical intelligence.
Keywords: Parkinson’s disease; Knowledge graph; Relational triple extraction

Weiming Sun, Keqi Wan, Shilin Li, Guojian Shen, Xiangli Dong, Guohua Yu, Zhen Feng, Chafeng Zheng,
Dysphagia in Parkinson's disease: A bibliometric and visualization analysis from 2002 to 2022,
Heliyon,
Volume 10, Issue 9,
2024,
e30191,
ISSN 2405-8440,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e30191.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405844024062224)
Abstract: Background
Dysphagia, or difficulty swallowing, is a prevalent complication of Parkinson's disease (PD), which can significantly impair quality of life. Despite the numerous studies on dysphagia in PD published in various journals, there remains a dearth of bibliometric analysis within this domain. This study thus aims to examine the global patterns of research on dysphagia after PD over the past 20 years, employing a visual analysis.
Material and methods
This investigation aimed to gather pertinent publications concerning dysphagia in PD from the SCI-Expanded database of the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC), covering the period from 2002 to 2022. To dissect and visually represent the collated corpus, we harnessed the capacities of CiteSpace, VOSviewer and R software for meticulous bibliometric scrutiny.
Results
The bibliometric study encompassed a total of 692 publications. Within the scope of autocratic nations, the USA emerged as the leading country in the quantity of research outputs. The University of Florida stood out as the most prolific academic entity, with Troche MS being the foremost author, contributing to 21 publications. The journal "Dysphagia" featured as the prime venue for publication. Key trending terms identified over the last 20 years include "Parkinson's disease," "dysphagia," "oropharyngeal dysphagia," and "prevalence."
Conclusion
Bibliometric analysis on dysphagia in PD offers a detailed overview of the development of scholarly publications, enabling scholars to grasp the current state of research within their field. It also serves as a benchmark for shaping future research directions.
Keywords: Dysphagia; Parkinson's disease; Bibliometrics; CiteSpace; Data visualization; WoSCC

L. Ramig, C. Fox,
O.032 Intensive voice treatment for Parkinson disease (LSVT LOUD): a neuroplasticity principled approach supported by technology,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 15, Supplement 2,
2009,
Page S9,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-8020(09)70047-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802009700471)

Takashi Uematsu, Takashi Tsuboi, Keita Hiraga, Daigo Tamakoshi, Taiki Fukushima, Maki Sato, Kazuki Nishida, Hideo Yokota, Masahisa Katsuno,
Differential impact of fixation characteristics on 3D perception via texture gradient recognition in Parkinson's disease,
Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 128,
2024,
107116,
ISSN 1353-8020,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107116.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353802024011283)

Marina Sarno, Scott Harcourt, Annelly Bure-Reyes, Jonathan Jagid, Corneliu Luca, Bonnie Levin, Ihtsham Haq,
The impact of mild-to-moderate cortical cognitive deficits on post-operative outcomes in deep brain stimulation for Parkinson’s disease: Considerations for patient selection,
Clinical Parkinsonism & Related Disorders,
Volume 13,
2025,
100361,
ISSN 2590-1125,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prdoa.2025.100361.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590112525000659)
Abstract: Introduction
Subcortical deficits in Parkinson’s disease (PD) are well studied; however, deep brain stimulation (DBS) risks posed by mild-moderate deficits in semantic fluency, verbal memory storage, and confrontation naming are not as well understood. This study aims to better define DBS risk stratification criteria by evaluating whether pre-DBS cortical domain deficits predict surgical outcomes, including cognition, mood, quality of life, medication and motor function in patients with PD.
Methods
A retrospective study was conducted with 50 PD patients who underwent pre- and post-surgical neurological and neuropsychological evaluations between 2015 and 2023. Patients were categorized into normal, mildly impaired, and moderately impaired cognitive groups based on pre-surgical neuropsychological testing. Bayesian paired-sample t-tests compared pre- and post-surgery outcomes in motor function, medication use, quality of life, mood, and cognition.
Results
No significant differences were found in demographic or clinical variables across cognitive groups. In the normal cognition group, there was a credible decline in memory and anxiety. The mildly impaired group showed a weak decline in delayed word list memory. The moderately impaired group had no significant changes in cognitive or mood variables. Medication use reliably decreased post-surgically across all groups. There was no significant change in motor function or quality of life post-DBS.
Conclusion
Mild to moderate cognitive impairments in memory and language do not significantly affect post-surgical outcomes. Our preliminary findings warrant further confirmation with larger sample sizes and long-term follow-up when assessing DBS candidacy in those with pre-surgical cognitive deficits. Comprehensive neuropsychological evaluations can assist in proper risk stratification and informed patient selection.

Mohammad Etoom, Ibrahem Hanafi, Alhadi M. Jahan, Auwal Abdullahi, Omar M. Elabd,
Effects of freezing of gait on vertical ground reaction force in Parkinson's disease,
Human Movement Science,
Volume 98,
2024,
103301,
ISSN 0167-9457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.humov.2024.103301.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016794572400126X)
Abstract: Vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) is a main kinetic gait analysis explaining body weight loading patterns. The study primarily aimed to understand effects of Freezing of gait (FoG) on vGRF in Parkinson's disease (PD). A secondary analysis for a walking dataset including biomechanical analyses for 26 PD participants (13 with FoG) was performed. Considering the normal pattern of vGRF curve, peaks during early stance (F1) and late stance (F3), and slope in- during mid-stance (F2) were used to represent the change in kinetic forces. vGRF parameters were compared between FoG and non-FoG participants, and at off- and on-medication. FoG participants showed higher vGRFs during mid-stance F2 magnitude (p = 0.003), and weaker vertical propulsion; F3 magnitude (p < 0.001). This coincided with delayed weight acceptance; F1 timing (p = 0.019), and midstance peaks; F2 timing (p = 0.004). At off-medications, the F2 magnitude was significantly higher (p = 0.006), F3 magnitude lower (p = 0.001), and F1 time slower (p = 0.034) in FoG. At on-medication, F3 magnitude was still significantly lower (p = 0.017), and F2 time was slower (p = 0.037) in FoG. This study reveals that FoG significantly affects vGRF, particularly F3 magnitude during the push-off phase. Analyzing vGRF is crucial for understanding and managing FoG, allowing for more targeted interventions to improve FoG outcomes.
Keywords: Kinetics; Neuromechanics; Rehabilitation; Mechanical loading; Gait disorders
