AUTHOR	TITLE	JOURNAL	LANGUANGE	DOCTYPE	KEYWORDS	ABSTRACT	AFFILIATION	DOI	PUBYEAR	PUBVOL	PUBISSUE	FPAGE	LPAGE	ARTNUMBER	PAGENUM
Cancela, Jorge; Pastorino, Matteo; Tzallas, Alexandros; Tsipouras, Markos; Rigas, Giorgios; Arredondo, Maria; Fotiadis, Dimitrios	Wearability Assessment of a Wearable System for Parkinson’s Disease Remote Monitoring Based on a Body Area Network of Sensors	Sensors	EN	Article	: compliance; Parkinson’s disease; Body Area Network (BAN); remote monitoring; motor assessment	Wearable technologies for health monitoring have become a reality in the last few years. So far, most research studies have focused on assessments of the technical performance of these systems, as well as the validation of the clinical outcomes. Nevertheless, the success in the acceptance of these solutions depends not only on the technical and clinical effectiveness, but on the final user acceptance. In this work the compliance of a telehealth system for the remote monitoring of Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients is presented with testing in 32 PD patients. This system, called PERFORM, is based on a Body Area Network (BAN) of sensors which has already been validated both from the technical and clinical point for view. Diverse methodologies (REBA, Borg and CRS scales in combination with a body map) are employed to study the comfort, biomechanical and physiological effects of the system. The test results allow us to conclude that the acceptance of this system is satisfactory with all the levels of effect on each component scoring in the lowest ranges. This study also provided useful insights and guidelines to lead to redesign of the system to improve patient compliance.	Life Supporting Technologies, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Avenida Complutense 30,  Madrid 28040, Spain	10.3390/s140917235	2014	14	9	-	-	17235	21
Skalova, Stepanka; Svadlakova, Tereza; Qureshi, Wasay; Dev, Kapil; Mokry, Jaroslav	Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells and Their Use in Cardiac and Neural Regenerative Medicine	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	iPS cells; cell reprogramming; directed differentiation; Parkinson’s disease; Alzheimer’s disease; Huntington’s disease	Stem cells are unique pools of cells that are crucial for embryonic development and maintenance of adult tissue homeostasis. The landmark Nobel Prize winning research by Yamanaka and colleagues to induce pluripotency in somatic cells has reshaped the field of stem cell research. The complications related to the usage of pluripotent embryonic stem cells (ESCs) in human medicine, particularly ESC isolation and histoincompatibility were bypassed with induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology. The human iPSCs can be used for studying embryogenesis, disease modeling, drug testing and regenerative medicine. iPSCs can be diverted to different cell lineages using small molecules and growth factors. In this review we have focused on iPSC differentiation towards cardiac and neuronal lineages. Moreover, we deal with the use of iPSCs in regenerative medicine and modeling diseases like myocardial infarction, Timothy syndrome, dilated cardiomyopathy, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s and Huntington’s disease. Despite the promising potential of iPSCs, genome contamination and low efficacy of cell reprogramming remain significant challenges.	Department of Histology and Embryology, Medical Faculty in Hradec Kralove,  Charles University in Prague, Simkova 870, Hradec Kralove 50038, Czech Republic	10.3390/ijms16024043	2015	16	2	-	-	4043	25
Ciuti, Gastone; Ricotti, Leonardo; Menciassi, Arianna; Dario, Paolo	MEMS Sensor Technologies for Human Centred Applications in Healthcare, Physical Activities, Safety and Environmental Sensing: A Review on Research Activities in Italy	Sensors	EN	Review	MEMS sensor technologies; human centred applications; research activity in Italy; healthcare; rehabilitation; physical activities; sport science; safety; environmental sensing	Over the past few decades the increased level of public awareness concerning healthcare, physical activities, safety and environmental sensing has created an emerging need for smart sensor technologies and monitoring devices able to sense, classify, and provide feedbacks to users’ health status and physical activities, as well as to evaluate environmental and safety conditions in a pervasive, accurate and reliable fashion. Monitoring and precisely quantifying users’ physical activity with inertial measurement unit-based devices, for instance, has also proven to be important in health management of patients affected by chronic diseases, e.g., Parkinson’s disease, many of which are becoming highly prevalent in Italy and in the Western world. This review paper will focus on MEMS sensor technologies developed in Italy in the last three years describing research achievements for healthcare and physical activity, safety and environmental sensing, in addition to smart systems integration. Innovative and smart integrated solutions for sensing devices, pursued and implemented in Italian research centres, will be highlighted, together with specific applications of such technologies. Finally, the paper will depict the future perspective of sensor technologies and corresponding exploitation opportunities, again with a specific focus on Italy.	The BioRobotics Institute, Scuola Superiore Sant&#039;Anna, Pisa 56025, Italy	10.3390/s150306441	2015	15	3	-	-	6441	28
Oung, Qi; Muthusamy, Hariharan; Lee, Hoi; Basah, Shafriza; Yaacob, Sazali; Sarillee, Mohamed; Lee, Chia	Technologies for Assessment of Motor Disorders in Parkinson’s Disease: A Review	Sensors	EN	Review	Parkinson Disease (PD); wearable sensor; audio sensor; multimodal sensor; Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)	Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is characterized as the commonest neurodegenerative illness that gradually degenerates the central nervous system. The goal of this review is to come out with a summary of the recent progress of numerous forms of sensors and systems that are related to diagnosis of PD in the past decades. The paper reviews the substantial researches on the application of technological tools (objective techniques) in the PD field applying different types of sensors proposed by previous researchers. In addition, this also includes the use of clinical tools (subjective techniques) for PD assessments, for instance, patient self-reports, patient diaries and the international gold standard reference scale, Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). Comparative studies and critical descriptions of these approaches have been highlighted in this paper, giving an insight on the current state of the art. It is followed by explaining the merits of the multiple sensor fusion platform compared to single sensor platform for better monitoring progression of PD, and ends with thoughts about the future direction towards the need of multimodal sensor integration platform for the assessment of PD.	School of Mechatronic Engineering, Universiti Malaysia Perlis (UniMAP), Campus Pauh Putra,  02600 Arau, Perlis, Malaysia	10.3390/s150921710	2015	15	9	-	-	21710	36
Scholz, Sonja; Bras, Jose	Genetics Underlying Atypical Parkinsonism and Related Neurodegenerative Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	atypical parkinsonism; multiple system atrophy; dementia with Lewy bodies; progressive supranuclear palsy; corticobasal degeneration	Atypical parkinsonism syndromes, such as dementia with Lewy bodies, multiple system atrophy, progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration, are neurodegenerative diseases with complex clinical and pathological features. Heterogeneity in clinical presentations, possible secondary determinants as well as mimic syndromes pose a major challenge to accurately diagnose patients suffering from these devastating conditions. Over the last two decades, significant advancements in genomic technologies have provided us with increasing insights into the molecular pathogenesis of atypical parkinsonism and their intriguing relationships to related neurodegenerative diseases, fueling new hopes to incorporate molecular knowledge into our diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic approaches towards managing these conditions. In this review article, we summarize the current understanding of genetic mechanisms implicated in atypical parkinsonism syndromes. We further highlight mimic syndromes relevant to differential considerations and possible future directions.	Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Unit, Laboratory of Neurogenetics,  National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health,  35 Convent Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA	10.3390/ijms161024629	2015	16	10	-	-	24629	27
Hofmann-Apitius, Martin; Ball, Gordon; Gebel, Stephan; Bagewadi, Shweta; De Bono, Bernard; Schneider, Reinhard; Page, Matt; Kodamullil, Alpha; Younesi, Erfan; Ebeling, Christian; Tegnér, Jesper; Canard, Luc	Bioinformatics Mining and Modeling Methods for the Identification of Disease Mechanisms in Neurodegenerative Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	mechanism-identification; bioinformatics; genetics; graphical models; knowledge-based modeling; multiscale; neurodegeneration; data integration; disease models	Since the decoding of the Human Genome, techniques from bioinformatics, statistics, and machine learning have been instrumental in uncovering patterns in increasing amounts and types of different data produced by technical profiling technologies applied to clinical samples, animal models, and cellular systems. Yet, progress on unravelling biological mechanisms, causally driving diseases, has been limited, in part due to the inherent complexity of biological systems. Whereas we have witnessed progress in the areas of cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, the area of neurodegenerative diseases has proved to be very challenging. This is in part because the aetiology of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer´s disease or Parkinson´s disease is unknown, rendering it very difficult to discern early causal events. Here we describe a panel of bioinformatics and modeling approaches that have recently been developed to identify candidate mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases based on publicly available data and knowledge. We identify two complementary strategies—data mining techniques using genetic data as a starting point to be further enriched using other data-types, or alternatively to encode prior knowledge about disease mechanisms in a model based framework supporting reasoning and enrichment analysis. Our review illustrates the challenges entailed in integrating heterogeneous, multiscale and multimodal information in the area of neurology in general and neurodegeneration in particular. We conclude, that progress would be accelerated by increasing efforts on performing systematic collection of multiple data-types over time from each individual suffering from neurodegenerative disease. The work presented here has been driven by project AETIONOMY; a project funded in the course of the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI); which is a public-private partnership of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Associations (EFPIA) and the European Commission (EC).	Department of Bioinformatics, Fraunhofer Institute for Algorithms and Scientific Computing (SCAI), Institutszentrum Birlinghoven, Sankt Augustin D-53754, Germany	10.3390/ijms161226148	2015	16	12	-	-	26148	-
Ozkan, Haydar	A Comparison of Classification Methods for Telediagnosis of Parkinson’s Disease	Entropy	EN	Article	telemedicine; Parkinson’s disease; machine learning; feature transformation; principal component analysis; k-nearest neighbor	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a progressive and chronic nervous system disease that impairs the ability of speech, gait, and complex muscle-and-nerve actions. Early diagnosis of PD is quite important for alleviating the symptoms. Cost effective and convenient telemedicine technology helps to distinguish the patients with PD from healthy people using variations of dysphonia, gait or motor skills. In this study, a novel telemedicine technology was developed to detect PD remotely using dysphonia features. Feature transformation and several machine learning (ML) methods with 2-, 5- and 10-fold cross-validations were implemented on the vocal features. It was observed that the combination of principal component analysis (PCA) as a feature transformation (FT) and k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) as a classifier with 10-fold cross-validation has the best accuracy as 99.1%. All ML processes were applied to the prerecorded PD dataset using a newly created program named ParkDet 2.0. Additionally, the blind test interface was created on the ParkDet so that users could detect new patients with PD in future. Clinicians or medical technicians, without any knowledge of ML, will be able to use the blind test interface to detect PD at a clinic or remote location utilizing internet as a telemedicine application.	Electrical Engineering Department, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA	10.3390/e18040115	2016	18	4	-	-	115	-
Parrales Bravo, Franklin; Del Barrio García, Alberto; Gallego de la Sacristana, Mercedes; López Manzanares, Lydia; Vivancos, José; Ayala Rodrigo, José	Support System to Improve Reading Activity in Parkinson’s Disease and Essential Tremor Patients	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; essential tremor; e-health; user experience	The use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) to improve the quality of life of people with chronic and degenerative diseases is a topic receiving much attention nowadays. We can observe that new technologies have driven numerous scientific projects in e-Health, encompassing Smart and Mobile Health, in order to address all the matters related to data processing and health. Our work focuses on helping to improve the quality of life of people with Parkinson’s Disease (PD) and Essential Tremor (ET) by means of a low-cost platform that enables them to read books in an easy manner. Our system is composed of two robotic arms and a graphical interface developed for Android platforms. After several tests, our proposal has achieved a 96.5% accuracy for A4 80 gr non-glossy paper. Moreover, our system has outperformed the state-of-the-art platforms considering different types of paper and inclined surfaces. The feedback from ET and PD patients was collected at “La Princesa” University Hospital in Madrid and was used to study the user experience. Several features such as ease of use, speed, correct behavior or confidence were measured via patient feedback, and a high level of satisfaction was awarded to most of them. According to the patients, our system is a promising tool for facilitating the activity of reading.	Faculty of Computer Science, Complutense University of Madrid, Av. Séneca, 2, 28040 Madrid, Spain	10.3390/s17051006	2017	17	5	-	-	1006	-
Kreowski, Hans-Jörg	Transhumanism and Nanotechnology—Will Old Myths Come True?	Proceedings	EN	Proceeding Paper	transhumanism; nanotechnology; mythology	A major goal of transhumanism is the transformation of human beings into posthuman ones by exploiting present and emerging technologies. Nanotechnology is considered as a promising candidate in this respect. Its objects of interest are molecular structures with their surface properties and their specific design as sensors and actuators in various environments including the human blood circulation, lung, brain, etc. In the mythologies all over the world one encounters the idea of super-natural strength, invulnerability, eternal youth, invisibility, invincibility, and immortality. Some proponents of transhumanism dream of a future in which all this will come true. And there are leading experts in nanotechnology who formulate quite similar aims and objectives of their area: the obligatory victory over Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease, cleansing of wounds, blood, lung, brain enhancement, soldiers who fight without fear, managers who need no sleep to be able to work 24 h a day 7 days a week for their companies, magic hoods, and much more. In the presentation, I discussed the relation between transhumanism and nanotechnology and compile some reasons why old myths will not come true.	Computer Science Department, University of Bremen, P.O. Box 330440, 28334 Bremen, Germany	10.3390/IS4SI-2017-03965	2017	1	3	-	-	243	-
Jeon, Hyoseon; Lee, Woongwoo; Park, Hyeyoung; Lee, Hong; Kim, Sang; Kim, Han; Jeon, Beomseok; Park, Kwang	Automatic Classification of Tremor Severity in Parkinson’s Disease Using a Wearable Device	Sensors	EN	Article	tremor; UPDRS; automatic scoring; Parkinson’s disease; wearable device; machine learning algorithm	Although there is clinical demand for new technology that can accurately measure Parkinsonian tremors, automatic scoring of Parkinsonian tremors using machine-learning approaches has not yet been employed. This study aims to fill this gap by proposing machine-learning algorithms as a way to predict the Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), which are similar to how neurologists rate scores in actual clinical practice. In this study, the tremor signals of 85 patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) were measured using a wrist-watch-type wearable device consisting of an accelerometer and a gyroscope. The displacement and angle signals were calculated from the measured acceleration and angular velocity, and the acceleration, angular velocity, displacement, and angle signals were used for analysis. Nineteen features were extracted from each signal, and the pairwise correlation strategy was used to reduce the number of feature dimensions. With the selected features, a decision tree (DT), support vector machine (SVM), discriminant analysis (DA), random forest (RF), and k-nearest-neighbor (kNN) algorithm were explored for automatic scoring of the Parkinsonian tremor severity. The performance of the employed classifiers was analyzed using accuracy, recall, and precision, and compared to other findings in similar studies. Finally, the limitations and plans for further study are discussed.	The Interdisciplinary Program for Bioengineering, Seoul National University, Seoul 03080, Korea	10.3390/s17092067	2017	17	9	-	-	2067	-
Kim, Hyojung; Ham, Sangwoo; Jo, Minkyung; Lee, Gum; Lee, Yun-Song; Shin, Joo-Ho; Lee, Yunjong	CRISPR-Cas9 Mediated Telomere Removal Leads to Mitochondrial Stress and Protein Aggregation	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	CRISPR-Cas9; telomere; aging; mitochondria; Parkinson’s disease	Aging is considered the major risk factor for neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson’s disease (PD). Telomere shortening is associated with cellular senescence. In this regard, pharmacological or genetic inhibition of telomerase activity has been used to model cellular aging. Here, we employed CRISPR-Cas9 technology to instantly remove the telomere to induce aging in a neuroblastoma cell line. Expression of both Cas9 and guide RNA targeting telomere repeats ablated the telomere, leading to retardation of cell proliferation. Instant deletion of telomere in SH-SY5Y cells impaired mitochondrial function with diminished mitochondrial respiration and cell viability. Supporting the pathological relevance of cell aging by CRISPR-Cas9 mediated telomere removal, alterations were observed in the levels of PD-associated proteins including PTEN-induced putative kinase 1, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator 1-α, nuclear respiratory factor 1, parkin, and aminoacyl tRNA synthetase complex interacting multifunctional protein 2. Significantly, α-synuclein expression in the background of telomere removal led to the enhancement of protein aggregation, suggesting positive feed-forward interaction between aging and PD pathogenesis. Collectively, our results demonstrate that CRISPR-Cas9 can be used to efficiently model cellular aging and PD.	Division of Pharmacology, Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Samsung Biomedical Research Institute, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do 440-746, Korea	10.3390/ijms18102093	2017	18	10	-	-	2093	-
Memedi, Mevludin; Tshering, Gaki; Fogelberg, Martin; Jusufi, Ilir; Kolkowska, Ella; Klein, Gunnar	An Interface for IoT: Feeding Back Health-Related Data to Parkinson’s Disease Patients	Journal of Sensor and Actuator Networks	EN	Article	information visualization; user-centered design; internet of things; sensor technology; Parkinson’s disease; patient empowerment; quality of life	This paper presents a user-centered design (UCD) process of an interface for Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients for helping them to better manage their symptoms. The interface is designed to visualize symptom and medication information, collected by an Internet of Things (IoT)-based system, which will consist of a smartphone, electronic dosing device, wrist sensor and a bed sensor. In our work, the focus is on measuring data related to some of the main health-related quality of life aspects such as motor function, sleep, medication compliance, meal intake timing in relation to medication intake, and physical exercise. A mock-up demonstrator for the interface was developed using UCD methodology in collaboration with PD patients. The research work was performed as an iterative design and evaluation process based on interviews and observations with 11 PD patients. Additional usability evaluations were conducted with three information visualization experts. Contributions include a list of requirements for the interface, results evaluating the performance of the patients when using the demonstrator during task-based evaluation sessions as well as opinions of the experts. The list of requirements included ability of the patients to track an ideal day, so they could repeat certain activities in the future as well as determine how the scores are related to each other. The patients found the visualizations as clear and easy to understand and could successfully perform the tasks. The evaluation with experts showed that the visualizations are in line with the current standards and guidelines for the intended group of users. In conclusion, the results from this work indicate that the proposed system can be considered as a tool for assisting patients in better management of the disease by giving them insights on their own aggregated symptom and medication information. However, the actual effects of providing such feedback to patients on their health-related quality of life should be investigated in a clinical trial.	Informatics, Business School, Örebro University, 70281 Örebro, Sweden	10.3390/jsan7010014	2018	7	1	-	-	14	-
Robinson-Agramonte, María; Pedre, Lourdes; Serrano-Barrera, Orlando	Neuroimmunology Research. A Report from the Cuban Network of Neuroimmunology	Behavioral Sciences	EN	Conference Report	neuroimmunology; neurodevelopmental disorders; neurodegenerative disorders; non-invasive brain stimulation; Alzheimer disease’s; Parkinson’s disease; autism; demyelinating disease; neuropsychology; ataxy	Neuroimmunology can be traced back to the XIX century through the descriptions of some of the disease’s models (e.g., multiple sclerosis and Guillain Barret syndrome, amongst others). The diagnostic tools are based in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis developed by Quincke or in the development of neuroimmunotherapy with the earlier expression in Pasteur’s vaccine for rabies. Nevertheless, this field, which began to become delineated as an independent research area in the 1940s, has evolved as an innovative and integrative field at the shared edges of neurosciences, immunology, and related clinical and research areas, which are currently becoming a major concern for neuroscience and indeed for all of the scientific community linked to it. The workshop focused on several topics: (1) the molecular mechanisms of immunoregulation in health and neurological diseases, (like multiple sclerosis, autism, ataxias, epilepsy, Alzheimer and Parkinson’s disease); (2) the use of animal models for neurodegenerative diseases (ataxia, fronto-temporal dementia/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ataxia-telangiectasia); (3) the results of new interventional technologies in neurology, with a special interest in the implementation of surgical techniques and the management of drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy; (4) the use of non-invasive brain stimulation in neurodevelopmental disorders; as well as (5) the efficacy of neuroprotective molecules in neurodegenerative diseases. This paper summarizes the highlights of the symposium.	Neuroimmunology Laboratory, Immunochemical Department, International Center for Neurological Restoration, Ave 25 # 15805 b/w 158 and 160, Playa, Havana 11300, Cuba	10.3390/bs8050047	2018	8	5	-	-	47	-
Liu, Jingjing; Yang, Lingling; Dong, Yanhong; Zhang, Bo; Ma, Xueqin	Echinacoside, an Inestimable Natural Product in Treatment of Neurological and other Disorders	Molecules	EN	Review	echinacoside; preparation; pharmacokinetics; Parkinson’s disease; Alzheimer’s disease	Echinacoside (ECH), a natural phenylethanoid glycoside, was first isolated from Echinacea angustifolia DC. (Compositae) sixty years ago. It was found to possess numerous pharmacologically beneficial activities for human health, especially the neuroprotective and cardiovascular effects. Although ECH showed promising potential for treatment of Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s diseases, some important issues arose. These included the identification of active metabolites as having poor bioavailability in prototype form, the definite molecular signal pathways or targets of ECH with the above effects, and limited reliable clinical trials. Thus, it remains unresolved as to whether scientific research can reasonably make use of this natural compound. A systematic summary and knowledge of future prospects are necessary to facilitate further studies for this natural product. The present review generalizes and analyzes the current knowledge on ECH, including its broad distribution, different preparation technologies, poor pharmacokinetics and kinds of therapeutic uses, and the future perspectives of its potential application.	Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, School of Pharmacy, Ningxia Medical University, 1160 Shenli Street, Yinchuan 750004, China	10.3390/molecules23051213	2018	23	5	-	-	1213	-
Cox, Nicholas; Louie, Jessica; Sederholm, Benson	Inappropriate Medication Use in Hospitalized Patients Diagnosed with Parkinson’s Disease	Pharmacy	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; medication errors; drug-related side effects and adverse reactions; antipsychotic agents	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the rate at which potentially inappropriate medications were administered for patients diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease (PD). This is a single-center, retrospective, case cohort study with data collected at an academic medical center between January 2010 and December 2013. Participants included all adult patients with admission diagnosis codes for PD. Included patients were screened for administrations of 27 potentially inappropriate medications and two potentially appropriate medications to be used for comparison. There were 1736 patients who met inclusion criteria with 175 documented administrations of potentially inappropriate medications to 77 patients. Patients who received potentially inappropriate medications had a longer mean duration of stay than the baseline population of PD patients (3.3 days vs. 1.9 days, p-value < 0.001). Despite recommendations to avoid certain medications in PD patients, a substantial number of administrations still occurred. The use of these medications can have clinical implications and our findings demonstrate increases in duration of stay. The findings from this study can assist in developing technological alerts to reduce inappropriate prescribing to PD patients. Larger prospective studies are warranted to further investigate the administration of inappropriate medications to patients diagnosed with PD.	Department of Pharmacotherapy, University of Utah College of Pharmacy, 30 S. 2000 E., Salt Lake City, UT 84112, USA	10.3390/pharmacy6030100	2018	6	3	-	-	100	-
Ashouri Vajari, Danesh; Vomero, Maria; Erhardt, Johannes; Sadr, Ali; Ordonez, Juan; Coenen, Volker; Stieglitz, Thomas	Integrity Assessment of a Hybrid DBS Probe that Enables Neurotransmitter Detection Simultaneously to Electrical Stimulation and Recording	Micromachines	EN	Article	deep brain stimulation; fast scan cyclic voltammetry; dopamine; glassy carbon electrode; magnetic resonance imaging	Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a successful medical therapy for many treatment resistant neuropsychiatric disorders such as movement disorders; e.g., Parkinson’s disease, Tremor, and dystonia. Moreover, DBS is becoming more and more appealing for a rapidly growing number of patients with other neuropsychiatric diseases such as depression and obsessive compulsive disorder. In spite of the promising outcomes, the current clinical hardware used in DBS does not match the technological standards of other medical applications and as a result could possibly lead to side effects such as high energy consumption and others. By implementing more advanced DBS devices, in fact, many of these limitations could be overcome. For example, a higher channels count and smaller electrode sites could allow more focal and tailored stimulation. In addition, new materials, like carbon for example, could be incorporated into the probes to enable adaptive stimulation protocols by biosensing neurotransmitters in the brain. Updating the current clinical DBS technology adequately requires combining the most recent technological advances in the field of neural engineering. Here, a novel hybrid multimodal DBS probe with glassy carbon microelectrodes on a polyimide thin-film device assembled on a silicon rubber tubing is introduced. The glassy carbon interface enables neurotransmitter detection using fast scan cyclic voltammetry and electrophysiological recordings while simultaneously performing electrical stimulation. Additionally, the presented DBS technology shows no imaging artefacts in magnetic resonance imaging. Thus, we present a promising new tool that might lead to a better fundamental understanding of the underlying mechanism of DBS while simultaneously paving our way towards better treatments.	Laboratory for Biomedical Microtechnology, Department of Microsystems Engineering (IMTEK), University of Freiburg, Georges-Kohler-Allee 102, 79110 Freiburg, Germany	10.3390/mi9100510	2018	9	10	-	-	510	-
Zhang, Minhua; Artan, N.; Gu, Huanying; Dong, Ziqian; Burina Ganatra, Lyudmila; Shermon, Suzanna; Rabin, Ely	Gait Study of Parkinson’s Disease Subjects Using Haptic Cues with A Motorized Walker	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s Diseases; motorized walker; haptic cue; gait pattern; statistics study	Gait abnormalities are one of the distinguishing symptoms of patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) that contribute to fall risk. Our study compares the gait parameters of people with PD when they walk through a predefined course under different haptic speed cue conditions (1) without assistance, (2) pushing a conventional rolling walker, and (3) holding onto a self-navigating motorized walker under different speed cues. Six people with PD were recruited at the New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine to participate in this study. Spatial posture and gait data of the test subjects were collected via a VICON motion capture system. We developed a framework to process and extract gait features and applied statistical analysis on these features to examine the significance of the findings. The results showed that the motorized walker providing a robust haptic cue significantly improved gait symmetry of PD subjects. Specifically, the asymmetry index of the gait cycle time was reduced from 6.7% when walking without assistance to 0.56% and below when using a walker. Furthermore, the double support time of a gait cycle was reduced by 4.88% compared to walking without assistance.	College of Engineering and Computing Sciences, New York Institute of Technology, New York, NY 10023, USA	10.3390/s18103549	2018	18	10	-	-	3549	-
Mishima, Takayasu; Fujioka, Shinsuke; Fukae, Jiro; Yuasa-Kawada, Junichi; Tsuboi, Yoshio	Modeling Parkinson’s Disease and Atypical Parkinsonian Syndromes Using Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	induced pluripotent stem cells; Parkinson’s disease; atypical parkinsonian syndromes; multiple system atrophy; FTDP-17; Perry syndrome; proteinopathy; CRISPR	Parkinson’s disease (PD) and atypical parkinsonian syndromes are age-dependent multifactorial neurodegenerative diseases, which are clinically characterized by bradykinesia, tremor, muscle rigidity and postural instability. Although these diseases share several common clinical phenotypes, their pathophysiological aspects vary among the disease categories. Extensive animal-based approaches, as well as postmortem studies, have provided important insights into the disease mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets. However, the exact pathological mechanisms triggering such diseases still remain elusive. Furthermore, the effects of drugs observed in animal models are not always reproduced in human clinical trials. By using induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology, it has become possible to establish patient-specific iPSCs from their somatic cells and to effectively differentiate these iPSCs into different types of neurons, reproducing some key aspects of the disease phenotypes in vitro. In this review, we summarize recent findings from iPSC-based modeling of PD and several atypical parkinsonian syndromes including multiple system atrophy, frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 and Perry syndrome. Furthermore, we discuss future challenges and prospects for modeling and understanding PD and atypical parkinsonian syndromes.	Department of Neurology, Fukuoka University, Fukuoka 814-0180, Japan	10.3390/ijms19123870	2018	19	12	-	-	3870	-
Xicoy, Helena; Wieringa, Bé; Martens, Gerard	The Role of Lipids in Parkinson’s Disease	Cells	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; fatty acyls; glycerolipids; glycerophospholipids; sphingolipids; sterol lipids; lipoproteins; α-synuclein-mediated pathology; disease-modifying effects; neuroprotection	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by a progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons from the nigrostriatal pathway, formation of Lewy bodies, and microgliosis. During the past decades multiple cellular pathways have been associated with PD pathology (i.e., oxidative stress, endosomal-lysosomal dysfunction, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and immune response), yet disease-modifying treatments are not available. We have recently used genetic data from familial and sporadic cases in an unbiased approach to build a molecular landscape for PD, revealing lipids as central players in this disease. Here we extensively review the current knowledge concerning the involvement of various subclasses of fatty acyls, glycerolipids, glycerophospholipids, sphingolipids, sterols, and lipoproteins in PD pathogenesis. Our review corroborates a central role for most lipid classes, but the available information is fragmented, not always reproducible, and sometimes differs by sex, age or PD etiology of the patients. This hinders drawing firm conclusions about causal or associative effects of dietary lipids or defects in specific steps of lipid metabolism in PD. Future technological advances in lipidomics and additional systematic studies on lipid species from PD patient material may improve this situation and lead to a better appreciation of the significance of lipids for this devastating disease.	Department of Cell Biology, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences (RIMLS), Radboudumc, 6525 GA Nijmegen, The Netherlands	10.3390/cells8010027	2019	8	1	-	-	27	-
Zella, Maria; Metzdorf, Judith; Ostendorf, Friederike; Maass, Fabian; Muhlack, Siegfried; Gold, Ralf; Haghikia, Aiden; Tönges, Lars	Novel Immunotherapeutic Approaches to Target Alpha-Synuclein and Related Neuroinflammation in Parkinson’s Disease	Cells	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; neuroinflammation; alpha-Synuclein; immunotherapy	The etiology of Parkinson’s disease (PD) is significantly influenced by disease-causing changes in the protein alpha-Synuclein (aSyn). It can trigger and promote intracellular stress and thereby impair the function of dopaminergic neurons. However, these damage mechanisms do not only extend to neuronal cells, but also affect most glial cell populations, such as astroglia and microglia, but also T lymphocytes, which can no longer maintain the homeostatic CNS milieu because they produce neuroinflammatory responses to aSyn pathology. Through precise neuropathological examination, molecular characterization of biomaterials, and the use of PET technology, it has been clearly demonstrated that neuroinflammation is involved in human PD. In this review, we provide an in-depth overview of the pathomechanisms that aSyn elicits in models of disease and focus on the affected glial cell and lymphocyte populations and their interaction with pathogenic aSyn species. The interplay between aSyn and glial cells is analyzed both in the basic research setting and in the context of human neuropathology. Ultimately, a strong rationale builds up to therapeutically reduce the burden of pathological aSyn in the CNS. The current antibody-based approaches to lower the amount of aSyn and thereby alleviate neuroinflammatory responses is finally discussed as novel therapeutic strategies for PD.	Department of Neurology, St. Josef-Hospital, Ruhr-University Bochum, 44791 Bochum, Germany	10.3390/cells8020105	2019	8	2	-	-	105	-
Sweeney, Dean; Quinlan, Leo; Browne, Patrick; Richardson, Margaret; Meskell, Pauline; ÓLaighin, Gearóid	A Technological Review of Wearable Cueing Devices Addressing Freezing of Gait in Parkinson’s Disease	Sensors	EN	Review	cueing; Freezing of Gait; FoG; Parkinson’s disease; wearable electronics	Freezing of gait is one of the most debilitating symptoms of Parkinson’s disease and is an important contributor to falls, leading to it being a major cause of hospitalization and nursing home admissions. When the management of freezing episodes cannot be achieved through medication or surgery, non-pharmacological methods such as cueing have received attention in recent years. Novel cueing systems were developed over the last decade and have been evaluated predominantly in laboratory settings. However, to provide benefit to people with Parkinson’s and improve their quality of life, these systems must have the potential to be used at home as a self-administer intervention. This paper aims to provide a technological review of the literature related to wearable cueing systems and it focuses on current auditory, visual and somatosensory cueing systems, which may provide a suitable intervention for use in home-based environments. The paper describes the technical operation and effectiveness of the different cueing systems in overcoming freezing of gait. The “What Works Clearinghouse (WWC)” tool was used to assess the quality of each study described. The paper findings should prove instructive for further researchers looking to enhance the effectiveness of future cueing systems.	Electrical &amp;amp; Electronic Engineering, School of Engineering and Informatics, NUI Galway, University Road, H91 TK33 Galway, Ireland	10.3390/s19061277	2019	19	6	-	-	1277	-
Cabrera DeBuc, Delia; Gaca-Wysocka, Magdalena; Grzybowski, Andrzej; Kanclerz, Piotr	Identification of Retinal Biomarkers in Alzheimer’s Disease Using Optical Coherence Tomography: Recent Insights, Challenges, and Opportunities	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; central nervous system diseases; ganglion cell layer; optical coherence tomography; retinal nerve fiber layer	This review will highlight recent insights into measuring retinal structure in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). A growing body of evidence indicates that disturbances in retinal blood flow and structure are related to cognitive function, which can severely impair vision. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is an optical imaging technology that may allow researchers and physicians to gain deeper insights into retinal morphology and clarify the impact of AD on retinal health and function. Direct and noninvasive measurement of retinal morphology using OCT has provided useful diagnostic and therapeutic indications in several central nervous system (CNS) diseases, including AD, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson disease. Despite several limitations, morphology assessment in the retinal layers is a significant advancement in the understanding of ocular diseases. Nevertheless, additional studies are required to validate the use of OCT in AD and its complications in the eye.	Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, FL 33136, USA	10.3390/jcm8070996	2019	8	7	-	-	996	-
Chen, Kevin; Baluya, Dodge; Tosun, Mehmet; Li, Feng; Maletic-Savatic, Mirjana	Imaging Mass Spectrometry: A New Tool to Assess Molecular Underpinnings of Neurodegeneration	Metabolites	EN	Review	neurodegeneration; metabolomics; biomarkers; imaging mass spectrometry	Neurodegenerative diseases are prevalent and devastating. While extensive research has been done over the past decades, we are still far from comprehensively understanding what causes neurodegeneration and how we can prevent it or reverse it. Recently, systems biology approaches have led to a holistic examination of the interactions between genome, metabolome, and the environment, in order to shed new light on neurodegenerative pathogenesis. One of the new technologies that has emerged to facilitate such studies is imaging mass spectrometry (IMS). With its ability to map a wide range of small molecules with high spatial resolution, coupled with the ability to quantify them at once, without the need for a priori labeling, IMS has taken center stage in current research efforts in elucidating the role of the metabolome in driving neurodegeneration. IMS has already proven to be effective in investigating the lipidome and the proteome of various neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, Huntington’s, multiple sclerosis, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Here, we review the IMS platform for capturing biological snapshots of the metabolic state to shed more light on the molecular mechanisms of the diseased brain.	Department of Biosciences, Rice University, Houston, TX 77030, USA	10.3390/metabo9070135	2019	9	7	-	-	135	-
Fernández-Dueñas, Víctor; Gómez-Soler, Maricel; Valle-León, Marta; Watanabe, Masahiko; Ferrer, Isidre; Ciruela, Francisco	Revealing Adenosine A2A-Dopamine D2 Receptor Heteromers in Parkinson’s Disease Post-Mortem Brain through a New AlphaScreen-Based Assay	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	AlphaScreen; GPCR oligomerization; Parkinson’s disease; Adenosine A2A receptor; Dopamine D2 receptor	Background: Several biophysical techniques have been successfully implemented to detect G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) heteromerization. Although these approaches have made it possible to ascertain the presence of GPCR heteromers in animal models of disease, no success has been accomplished in pathological human post-mortem brains. The AlphaScreen technology has been consistently used to quantify small analyte accumulation or depletion, bimolecular interactions, and post-translational modifications. The high signal-to-background, dynamic range and sensitivity exhibited by this technology support that it may be suitable to detect GPCR heteromers even under non-optimal conditions. Methods: Here, we describe the development of a new AlphaScreen assay to detect GPCR oligomers in human post-mortem brain. Results: Adenosine A2A-dopamine D2 receptor (A2AR/D2R) heteromer formation was monitored in caudate from healthy and Parkinson’s disease (PD) subjects. The approach was first validated using striatal membranes from wild type and A2AR deficient mice. Secondly, we took advantage of the 6-hydroxydopamine hemiparkinsonian rat model to validate previous results. In addition, finally, A2AR/D2R heteromer formation was assessed in caudate membranes from human post-mortem brains. Importantly, our preliminary results revealed an increase in A2AR/D2R heteromer formation in PD brains. Conclusions: The new AlphaScreen assay allowed assessing GPCR heteromers in human post-mortem brains with high sensitivity.	Unitat de Farmacologia, Departament de Patologia i Terapèutica Experimental, Facultat de Medicina i Ciències de la Salut, IDIBELL, Universitat de Barcelona, 08907 L’Hospitalet de Llobregat, Spain	10.3390/ijms20143600	2019	20	14	-	-	3600	-
Hasegawa, Naoya; Shah, Vrutangkumar; Carlson-Kuhta, Patricia; Nutt, John; Horak, Fay; Mancini, Martina	How to Select Balance Measures Sensitive to Parkinson’s Disease from Body-Worn Inertial Sensors—Separating the Trees from the Forest	Sensors	EN	Article	feature selection; balance dysfunction; objective measures; Parkinson’s disease; inertial measurement unit; wearable technology	This study aimed to determine the most sensitive objective measures of balance dysfunction that differ between people with Parkinson’s Disease (PD) and healthy controls. One-hundred and forty-four people with PD and 79 age-matched healthy controls wore eight inertial sensors while performing tasks to measure five domains of balance: standing posture (Sway), anticipatory postural adjustments (APAs), automatic postural responses (APRs), dynamic posture (Gait) and limits of stability (LOS). To reduce the initial 93 measures, we selected uncorrelated measures that were most sensitive to PD. After applying a threshold on the Standardized Mean Difference between PD and healthy controls, 44 measures remained; and after reducing highly correlated measures, 24 measures remained. The four most sensitive measures were from APAs and Gait domains. The random forest with 10-fold cross-validation on the remaining measures (n = 24) showed an accuracy to separate PD from healthy controls of 82.4%—identical to result for all measures. Measures from the most sensitive domains, APAs and Gait, were significantly correlated with the severity of disease and with patient-related outcomes. This method greatly reduced the objective measures of balance to the most sensitive for PD, while still capturing four of the five domains of balance.	Department of Neurology, Oregon Health &amp;amp; Science University, Portland, OR 97239-3098, USA	10.3390/s19153320	2019	19	15	-	-	3320	-
Kin, Kyohei; Yasuhara, Takao; Kameda, Masahiro; Date, Isao	Animal Models for Parkinson’s Disease Research: Trends in the 2000s	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	animal model; α-synuclein; DJ-1; neurotoxin; Parkin; Parkinson’s disease; pesticide; PINK1; 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine; 6-hydroxydopamine	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive movement disorder and the second most common neurodegenerative disease. Although many studies have been conducted, there is an unmet clinical need to develop new treatments because, currently, only symptomatic therapies are available. To achieve this goal, clarification of the pathology is required. Attempts have been made to emulate human PD and various animal models have been developed over the decades. Neurotoxin models have been commonly used for PD research. Recently, advances in transgenic technology have enabled the development of genetic models that help to identify new approaches in PD research. However, PD animal model trends have not been investigated. Revealing the trends for PD research will be valuable for increasing our understanding of the positive and negative aspects of each model. In this article, we clarified the trends for animal models that were used to research PD in the 2000s, and we discussed each model based on these trends.	Department of Neurological Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, 2-5-1, Shikata-cho, Kita-ku, Okayama-shi, Okayama 700-8558, Japan	10.3390/ijms20215402	2019	20	21	-	-	5402	-
Parodi, Aquiles; Choi, Jin-Woo	A Pulse Generation Circuit for Studying Waveform Effects on Neurostimulation	Electronics	EN	Article	pulse generator; waveform; capacitive stimulator	Electrical stimulation technology has advanced from cardiac pacemakers towards cochlear implants, physical rehabilitation, and treatment for Parkinson’s and other diseases. Electrical stimulation parameters, such as waveform, amplitude, and stimulation frequency, have been shown to affect neurostimulation properties. However, the effect of signal time rate of change on electrical stimulation applications has not been studied, and there are no stimulators that specifically allow the study of these effects. A novel pulse generator circuit is presented and characterized. An analytical expression is derived from the circuit, that allows for the design of pulse parameters, such as maximum amplitude voltage, time for peak amplitude, and stimulation duration. The analytical expression is verified to match design values and measurements in an electrical model and phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) solution. The circuit is shown to operate at variable output stimulation frequencies, and an expression is derived in order to determine the limit of the output stimulation frequency. The pulse generation circuit is thought to be the first dedicated output pulse generator for research of the effect of signal time rate of change on electrical stimulation applications such as neurostimulation.	School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA 70803, USA	10.3390/electronics8111344	2019	8	11	-	-	1344	-
Botros, Angela; Schütz, Narayan; Camenzind, Martin; Urwyler, Prabitha; Bolliger, Daniel; Vanbellingen, Tim; Kistler, Rolf; Bohlhalter, Stephan; Müri, Rene; Mosimann, Urs; Nef, Tobias	Long-Term Home-Monitoring Sensor Technology in Patients with Parkinson’s Disease—Acceptance and Adherence	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; body-worn sensors; ambient sensors; Accelerometer; PIR sensor; acceptance; adherence; patient monitoring; telemetry; remote sensing technology; wearable electronic devices; symptom assessment; motor disorders	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is characterized by a highly individual disease-profile as well as fluctuating symptoms. Consequently, 24-h home monitoring in a real-world environment would be an ideal solution for precise symptom diagnostics. In recent years, small lightweight sensors which have assisted in objective, reliable analysis of motor symptoms have attracted a lot of attention. While technical advances are important, patient acceptance of such new systems is just as crucial to increase long-term adherence. So far, there has been a lack of long-term evaluations of PD-patient sensor adherence and acceptance. In a pilot study of PD patients (N = 4), adherence (wearing time) and acceptance (questionnaires) of a multi-part sensor set was evaluated over a 4-week timespan. The evaluated sensor set consisted of 3 body-worn sensors and 7 at-home installed ambient sensors. After one month of continuous monitoring, the overall system usability scale (SUS)-questionnaire score was 71.5%, with an average acceptance score of 87% for the body-worn sensors and 100% for the ambient sensors. On average, sensors were worn 15 h and 4 min per day. All patients reported strong preferences of the sensor set over manual self-reporting methods. Our results coincide with measured high adherence and acceptance rate of similar short-term studies and extend them to long-term monitoring.	Gerontechnology and Rehabilitation Group, University of Bern, 3008 Bern, Switzerland	10.3390/s19235169	2019	19	23	-	-	5169	-
Ricci, Mariachiara; Di Lazzaro, Giulia; Pisani, Antonio; Scalise, Simona; Alwardat, Mohammad; Salimei, Chiara; Giannini, Franco; Saggio, Giovanni	Wearable Electronics Assess the Effectiveness of Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation on Balance and Gait in Parkinson’s Disease Patients	Sensors	EN	Article	balance; gait; Parkinson’s disease; transcranial direct current stimulation; wearable electronics; IMUs	Currently, clinical evaluation represents the primary outcome measure in Parkinson’s disease (PD). However, clinical evaluation may underscore some subtle motor impairments, hidden from the visual inspection of examiners. Technology-based objective measures are more frequently utilized to assess motor performance and objectively measure motor dysfunction. Gait and balance impairments, frequent complications in later disease stages, are poorly responsive to classic dopamine-replacement therapy. Although recent findings suggest that transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can have a role in improving motor skills, there is scarce evidence for this, especially considering the difficulty to objectively assess motor function. Therefore, we used wearable electronics to measure motor abilities, and further evaluated the gait and balance features of 10 PD patients, before and (three days and one month) after the tDCS. To assess patients’ abilities, we adopted six motor tasks, obtaining 72 meaningful motor features. According to the obtained results, wearable electronics demonstrated to be a valuable tool to measure the treatment response. Meanwhile the improvements from tDCS on gait and balance abilities of PD patients demonstrated to be generally partial and selective.	Department of Electronic Engineering, University of Rome “Tor Vergata”, 00133 Rome, Italy	10.3390/s19245465	2019	19	24	-	-	5465	-
Muthukrishnan, Niveditha; Abbas, James; Shill, Holly; Krishnamurthi, Narayanan	Cueing Paradigms to Improve Gait and Posture in Parkinson’s Disease: A Narrative Review	Sensors	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; cueing; gait; posture; rehabilitation; wearable sensors	Progressive gait dysfunction is one of the primary motor symptoms in people with Parkinson’s disease (PD). It is generally expressed as reduced step length and gait speed and as increased variability in step time and step length. People with PD also exhibit stooped posture which disrupts gait and impedes social interaction. The gait and posture impairments are usually resistant to the pharmacological treatment, worsen as the disease progresses, increase the likelihood of falls, and result in higher rates of hospitalization and mortality. These impairments may be caused by perceptual deficiencies (poor spatial awareness and loss of temporal rhythmicity) due to the disruptions in processing intrinsic information related to movement initiation and execution which can result in misperceptions of the actual effort required to perform a desired movement and maintain a stable posture. Consequently, people with PD often depend on external cues during execution of motor tasks. Numerous studies involving open-loop cues have shown improvements in gait and freezing of gait (FoG) in people with PD. However, the benefits of cueing may be limited, since cues are provided in a consistent/rhythmic manner irrespective of how well a person follows them. This limitation can be addressed by providing feedback in real-time to the user about performance (closed-loop cueing) which may help to improve movement patterns. Some studies that used closed-loop cueing observed improvements in gait and posture in PD, but the treadmill-based setup in a laboratory would not be accessible outside of a research setting, and the skills learned may not readily and completely transfer to overground locomotion in the community. Technologies suitable for cueing outside of laboratory environments could facilitate movement practice during daily activities at home or in the community and could strongly reinforce movement patterns and improve clinical outcomes. This narrative review presents an overview of cueing paradigms that have been utilized to improve gait and posture in people with PD and recommends development of closed-loop wearable systems that can be used at home or in the community to improve gait and posture in PD.	Center for Adaptive Neural Systems, School of Biological and Health Systems Engineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85287, USA	10.3390/s19245468	2019	19	24	-	-	5468	-
Tamura, Hiroshi; Jozaki, Mai; Tanabe, Manabu; Shirafuta, Yuichiro; Mihara, Yumiko; Shinagawa, Masahiro; Tamura, Isao; Maekawa, Ryo; Sato, Shun; Taketani, Toshiaki; Takasaki, Akihisa; Reiter, Russel; Sugino, Norihiro	Importance of Melatonin in Assisted Reproductive Technology and Ovarian Aging	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	melatonin; ovarian aging; reactive oxygen; oxidative stress; infertility	Melatonin is probably produced in all cells but is only secreted by the pineal gland. The pineal secretion of melatonin is determined by the light–dark cycle, and it is only released at night. Melatonin regulates biological rhythms via its receptors located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus. Melatonin also has strong antioxidant activities to scavenge free radicals such as reactive oxygen species (ROS). The direct free radical scavenging actions are receptor independent. ROS play an important role in reproductive function including in the ovulatory process. However, excessive ROS can also have an adverse effect on oocytes because of oxidative stress, thereby causing infertility. It is becoming clear that melatonin is located in the ovarian follicular fluid and in the oocytes themselves, which protects these cells from oxidative damage as well as having other beneficial actions in oocyte maturation, fertilization, and embryo development. Trials on humans have investigated the improvement of outcomes of assisted reproductive technology (ART), such as in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer (IVF-ET), by way of administering melatonin to patients suffering from infertility. In addition, clinical research has examined melatonin as an anti-aging molecule via its antioxidative actions, and its relationship with the aging diseases, e.g., Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease, is also underway. Melatonin may also reduce ovarian aging, which is a major issue in assisted reproductive technology. This review explains the relationship between melatonin and human reproductive function, as well as the clinical applications expected to improve the outcomes of assisted reproductive technology such as IVF, while also discussing possibilities for melatonin in preventing ovarian aging.	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine, Minamikogushi 1-1-1, Ube 755-8505, Japan	10.3390/ijms21031135	2020	21	3	-	-	1135	-
Titze-de-Almeida, Simoneide; Soto-Sánchez, Cristina; Fernandez, Eduardo; Koprich, James; Brotchie, Jonathan; Titze-de-Almeida, Ricardo	The Promise and Challenges of Developing miRNA-Based Therapeutics for Parkinson’s Disease	Cells	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; alpha-synuclein; microRNA; RNA interference; gene silence; RNAi therapeutic	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small double-stranded RNAs that exert a fine-tuning sequence-specific regulation of cell transcriptome. While one unique miRNA regulates hundreds of mRNAs, each mRNA molecule is commonly regulated by various miRNAs that bind to complementary sequences at 3’-untranslated regions for triggering the mechanism of RNA interference. Unfortunately, dysregulated miRNAs play critical roles in many disorders, including Parkinson’s disease (PD), the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease in the world. Treatment of this slowly, progressive, and yet incurable pathology challenges neurologists. In addition to L-DOPA that restores dopaminergic transmission and ameliorate motor signs (i.e., bradykinesia, rigidity, tremors), patients commonly receive medication for mood disorders and autonomic dysfunctions. However, the effectiveness of L-DOPA declines over time, and the L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias commonly appear and become highly disabling. The discovery of more effective therapies capable of slowing disease progression –a neuroprotective agent–remains a critical need in PD. The present review focus on miRNAs as promising drug targets for PD, examining their role in underlying mechanisms of the disease, the strategies for controlling aberrant expressions, and, finally, the current technologies for translating these small molecules from bench to clinics.	Technology for Gene Therapy Laboratory, Central Institute of Sciences, FAV, University of Brasilia, Brasília 70910-900, Brazil	10.3390/cells9040841	2020	9	4	-	-	841	-
Sánchez-Herrera-Baeza, Patricia; Cano-de-la-Cuerda, Roberto; Oña-Simbaña, Edwin; Palacios-Ceña, Domingo; Pérez-Corrales, Jorge; Cuenca-Zaldivar, Juan; Gueita-Rodriguez, Javier; Balaguer-Bernaldo de Quirós, Carlos; Jardón-Huete, Alberto; Cuesta-Gomez, Alicia	The Impact of a Novel Immersive Virtual Reality Technology Associated with Serious Games in Parkinson’s Disease Patients on Upper Limb Rehabilitation: A Mixed Methods Intervention Study	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; biomedical technology; biomedical enhancement; neurological rehabilitation; mixed methods research	Background: Parkinson’s disease is a neurodegenerative disorder that causes impaired motor functions. Virtual reality technology may be recommended to optimize motor learning in a safe environment. The objective of this paper was to evaluate the effects of a novel immersive virtual reality technology used for serious games (Oculus Rift 2 plus leap motion controller—OR2-LMC) for upper limb outcomes (muscle strength, coordination, speed of movements, fine and gross dexterity). Another objective was to obtain qualitative data for participants’ experiences related to the intervention. Methods: A mixed methods intervention (embedded) study was used, with a qualitative design after a technology intervention (quantitative design). The intervention and qualitative design followed international guidelines and were integrated into the method and reporting subheadings. Results: Significant improvements were observed in strength (p = 0.028), fine (p = 0.026 to 0.028) and gross coordination dexterity, and speed movements (p = 0.039) in the affected side, with excellent compliance (100%) and a high level of satisfaction (3.66 ± 0.18 points out of the maximum of 4). No adverse side effects were observed. Qualitative findings described patients’ perspectives regarding OR2-LMC treatment, facilitators and barriers for adherence, OR2-LMC applications, and treatment improvements. Conclusions: The intervention showed positive results for the upper limbs, with elements of discordance, expansion, and confirmation between qualitative and quantitative results.	Department of Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, Rehabilitation and Physical Medicine, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, PC 28922 Madrid, Spain	10.3390/s20082168	2020	20	8	-	-	2168	-
Cano-de-la-Cuerda, Roberto; Vela-Desojo, Lydia; Moreno-Verdú, Marcos; Ferreira-Sánchez, María; Macías-Macías, Yolanda; Miangolarra-Page, Juan	Trunk Range of Motion Is Related to Axial Rigidity, Functional Mobility and Quality of Life in Parkinson’s Disease: An Exploratory Study	Sensors	EN	Article	axial rigidity; health related quality of life; Parkinson’s disease; range of motion	Background: People with Parkinson’s disease (PD) present deficits of the active range of motion (ROM), prominently in their trunk. However, if these deficits are associated with axial rigidity, the functional mobility or health related quality of life (HRQoL), remains unknown. The aim of this paper is to study the relationship between axial ROM and axial rigidity, the functional mobility and HRQoL in patients with mild to moderate PD. Methods: An exploratory study was conducted. Non-probabilistic sampling of consecutive cases was used. Active trunk ROM was assessed by a universal goniometer. A Biodex System isokinetic dynamometer was used to measure the rigidity of the trunk. Functional mobility was determined by the Get Up and Go (GUG) test, and HRQoL was assessed with the PDQ-39 and EuroQol-5D questionnaires. Results: Thirty-six mild to moderate patients with PD were evaluated. Significant correlations were observed between trunk extensors rigidity and trunk flexion and extension ROM. Significant correlations were observed between trunk flexion, extension and rotation ROM and GUG. Moreover, significant correlations were observed between trunk ROM for flexion, extension and rotations (both sides) and PDQ-39 total score. However, these correlations were considered poor. Conclusions: Trunk ROM for flexion and extension movements, measured by a universal goniometer, were correlated with axial extensors rigidity, evaluated by a technological device at 30°/s and 45°/s, and functional mobility. Moreover, trunk ROM for trunk flexion, extension and rotations were correlated with HRQoL in patients with mild to moderate PD.	Department of Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, Rehabilitation and Physical Medicine, Health Sciences Faculty, Rey Juan Carlos University, Alcorcón, 28922 Madrid, Spain	10.3390/s20092482	2020	20	9	-	-	2482	-
Coates, Lucy; Shi, Jian; Rochester, Lynn; Del Din, Silvia; Pantall, Annette	Entropy of Real-World Gait in Parkinson’s Disease Determined from Wearable Sensors as a Digital Marker of Altered Ambulatory Behavior	Sensors	EN	Article	wearable technology; gait; Parkinson’s disease; sample entropy; variability; real-world	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a common age-related neurodegenerative disease. Gait impairment is frequent in the later stages of PD contributing to reduced mobility and quality of life. Digital biomarkers such as gait velocity and step length are predictors of motor and cognitive decline in PD. Additional gait parameters may describe different aspects of gait and motor control in PD. Sample entropy (SampEnt), a measure of signal predictability, is a nonlinear approach that quantifies regularity of a signal. This study investigated SampEnt as a potential biomarker for PD and disease duration. Real-world gait data over a seven-day period were collected using an accelerometer (Axivity AX3, York, UK) placed on the low back and gait metrics extracted. SampEnt was determined for the stride time, with vector length and threshold parameters optimized. People with PD had higher stride time SampEnt compared to older adults, indicating reduced gait regularity. The range of SampEnt increased over 36 months for the PD group, although the mean value did not change. SampEnt was associated with dopaminergic medication dose but not with clinical motor scores. In conclusion, this pilot study indicates that SampEnt from real-world data may be a useful parameter reflecting clinical status although further research is needed involving larger populations.	School of Mathematics, Statistics and Physics, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU, UK	10.3390/s20092631	2020	20	9	-	-	2631	-
Pavan, Eleonora; Ormazabal, Maximiliano; Peruzzo, Paolo; Vaena, Emilio; Rozenfeld, Paula; Dardis, Andrea	CRISPR/Cas9 Editing for Gaucher Disease Modelling	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	Gaucher disease; cellular model; acid β-glucosidase; CRISPR/Cas9; unfolded protein response; neuroinflammation; α-synuclein; high-throughput drug screenings	Gaucher disease (GD) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by mutations in the acid β-glucosidase gene (GBA1). Besides causing GD, GBA1 mutations constitute the main genetic risk factor for developing Parkinson’s disease. The molecular basis of neurological manifestations in GD remain elusive. However, neuroinflammation has been proposed as a key player in this process. We exploited CRISPR/Cas9 technology to edit GBA1 in the human monocytic THP-1 cell line to develop an isogenic GD model of monocytes and in glioblastoma U87 cell lines to generate an isogenic GD model of glial cells. Both edited (GBA1 mutant) cell lines presented low levels of mutant acid β-glucosidase expression, less than 1% of residual activity and massive accumulation of substrate. Moreover, U87 GBA1 mutant cells showed that the mutant enzyme was retained in the ER and subjected to proteasomal degradation, triggering unfolded protein response (UPR). U87 GBA1 mutant cells displayed an increased production of interleukin-1β, both with and without inflammosome activation, α-syn accumulation and a higher rate of cell death in comparison with wild-type cells. In conclusion, we developed reliable, isogenic, and easy-to-handle cellular models of GD obtained from commercially accessible cells to be employed in GD pathophysiology studies and high-throughput drug screenings.	Regional Coordinator Centre for Rare Diseases, Academic Hospital of Udine, 33100 Udine, Italy	10.3390/ijms21093268	2020	21	9	-	-	3268	-
Channa, Asma; Popescu, Nirvana; Ciobanu, Vlad	Wearable Solutions for Patients with Parkinson’s Disease and Neurocognitive Disorder: A Systematic Review	Sensors	EN	Review	wearable sensors; Parkinson’s patients; Parkinson’s disorder; neurocognitive disorder; rehabilitation exercises	Prevalence of neurocognitive diseases in adult patients demands the use of wearable devices to transform the future of mental health. Recent development in wearable technology proclaimed its use in diagnosis, rehabilitation, assessment, and monitoring. This systematic review presents the state of the art of wearables used by Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients or the patients who are going through a neurocognitive disorder. This article is based on PRISMA guidelines, and the literature is searched between January 2009 to January 2020 analyzing four databases: PubMed, IEEE Xplorer, Elsevier, and ISI Web of Science. For further validity of articles, a new PEDro-inspired technique is implemented. In PEDro, five statistical indicators were set to classify relevant articles and later the citations were also considered to make strong assessment of relevant articles. This led to 46 articles that met inclusion criteria. Based on them, this systematic review examines different types of wearable devices, essential in improving early diagnose and monitoring, emphasizing their role in improving the quality of life, differentiating the various fitness and gait wearable-based exercises and their impact on the regression of disease and on the motor diagnosis tests and finally addressing the available wearable insoles and their role in rehabilitation. The research findings proved that sensor based wearable devices, and specially instrumented insoles, help not only in monitoring and diagnosis but also in tracking numerous exercises and their positive impact towards the improvement of quality of life among different Parkinson and neurocognitive patients.	Computer Science Department, University POLITEHNICA of Bucharest, RO-060042 Bucharest, Romania	10.3390/s20092713	2020	20	9	-	-	2713	-
Oña, Edwin; Jardón, Alberto; Cuesta-Gómez, Alicia; Sánchez-Herrera-Baeza, Patricia; Cano-de-la-Cuerda, Roberto; Balaguer, Carlos	Validity of a Fully-Immersive VR-Based Version of the Box and Blocks Test for Upper Limb Function Assessment in Parkinson’s Disease	Sensors	EN	Article	automatic; assessment; manual dexterity; Parkinson’s disease; neurological rehabilitation; virtual reality; games for health	In recent decades, gaming technology has been accepted as a feasible method for complementing traditional clinical practice, especially in neurorehabilitation; however, the viability of using 3D Virtual Reality (VR) for the assessment of upper limb motor function has not been fully explored. For that purpose, we developed a VR-based version of the Box and Blocks Test (BBT), a clinical test for the assessment of manual dexterity, as an automated alternative to the classical procedure. Our VR-based BBT (VR-BBT) integrates the traditional BBT mechanics into gameplay using the Leap Motion Controller (LMC) to capture the user’s hand motion and the Oculus Rift headset to provide a fully immersive experience. This paper focuses on evaluating the validity of our VR-BBT to reliably measure the manual dexterity in a sample of patients with Parkinson’s Disease (PD). For this study, a group of twenty individuals in a mild to moderate stage of PD were recruited. Participants were asked to perform the physical BBT (once) and our proposed VR-BBT (twice) system, separately. Correlation analysis of collected data was carried out. Statistical analysis proved that the performance data collected by the VR-BBT significantly correlated with the conventional assessment of the BBT. The VR-BBT scores have shown a significant association with PD severity measured by the Hoehn and Yahr scale. This fact suggests that the VR-BBT could be used as a reliable indicator for health improvements in patients with PD. Finally, the VR-BBT system presented high usability and acceptability rated by clinicians and patients.	Department of Systems Engineering and Automation, University Carlos III of Madrid, Avda. de la Universidad 30, 28911 Leganés, Spain	10.3390/s20102773	2020	20	10	-	-	2773	-
Stavropoulos, Thanos; Papastergiou, Asterios; Mpaltadoros, Lampros; Nikolopoulos, Spiros; Kompatsiaris, Ioannis	IoT Wearable Sensors and Devices in Elderly Care: A Literature Review	Sensors	EN	Review	IoT; wearables; sensors; devices; elders; old age; AAL; Alzheimer’s; dementia	The increasing ageing global population is causing an upsurge in ailments related to old age, primarily dementia and Alzheimer’s disease, frailty, Parkinson’s, and cardiovascular disease, but also a general need for general eldercare as well as active and healthy ageing. In turn, there is a need for constant monitoring and assistance, intervention, and support, causing a considerable financial and human burden on individuals and their caregivers. Interconnected sensing technology, such as IoT wearables and devices, present a promising solution for objective, reliable, and remote monitoring, assessment, and support through ambient assisted living. This paper presents a review of such solutions including both earlier review studies and individual case studies, rapidly evolving in the last decade. In doing so, it examines and categorizes them according to common aspects of interest such as health focus, from specific ailments to general eldercare; IoT technologies, from wearables to smart home sensors; aims, from assessment to fall detection and indoor positioning to intervention; and experimental evaluation participants duration and outcome measures, from acceptability to accuracy. Statistics drawn from this categorization aim to outline the current state-of-the-art, as well as trends and effective practices for the future of effective, accessible, and acceptable eldercare with technology.	Centre for Research &amp;amp; Technology Hellas, Information Technologies Institute, 6th Km Charilaou-Thermi, 57001 Thessaloniki, Greece	10.3390/s20102826	2020	20	10	-	-	2826	-
Zampogna, Alessandro; Mileti, Ilaria; Palermo, Eduardo; Celletti, Claudia; Paoloni, Marco; Manoni, Alessandro; Mazzetta, Ivan; Dalla Costa, Gloria; Pérez-López, Carlos; Camerota, Filippo; Leocani, Letizia; Cabestany, Joan; Irrera, Fernanda; Suppa, Antonio	Fifteen Years of Wireless Sensors for Balance Assessment in Neurological Disorders	Sensors	EN	Review	wireless sensors; wearables; balance; posturography; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; multiple sclerosis; cerebellar ataxia; stroke; vestibular syndrome	Balance impairment is a major mechanism behind falling along with environmental hazards. Under physiological conditions, ageing leads to a progressive decline in balance control per se. Moreover, various neurological disorders further increase the risk of falls by deteriorating specific nervous system functions contributing to balance. Over the last 15 years, significant advancements in technology have provided wearable solutions for balance evaluation and the management of postural instability in patients with neurological disorders. This narrative review aims to address the topic of balance and wireless sensors in several neurological disorders, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, stroke, and other neurodegenerative and acute clinical syndromes. The review discusses the physiological and pathophysiological bases of balance in neurological disorders as well as the traditional and innovative instruments currently available for balance assessment. The technical and clinical perspectives of wearable technologies, as well as current challenges in the field of teleneurology, are also examined.	Department of Human Neurosciences, Sapienza University of Rome, 00185 Rome, Italy	10.3390/s20113247	2020	20	11	-	-	3247	-
Aich, Satyabrata; Youn, Jinyoung; Chakraborty, Sabyasachi; Pradhan, Pyari; Park, Jin-han; Park, Seongho; Park, Jinse	A Supervised Machine Learning Approach to Detect the On/Off State in Parkinson’s Disease Using Wearable Based Gait Signals	Diagnostics	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; medication state; machine learning; wearable device; “On” and “Off”	Fluctuations in motor symptoms are mostly observed in Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients. This characteristic is inevitable, and can affect the quality of life of the patients. However, it is difficult to collect precise data on the fluctuation characteristics using self-reported data from PD patients. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a suitable technology that can detect the medication state, also termed the “On”/“Off” state, automatically using wearable devices; at the same time, this could be used in the home environment. Recently, wearable devices, in combination with powerful machine learning techniques, have shown the potential to be effectively used in critical healthcare applications. In this study, an algorithm is proposed that can detect the medication state automatically using wearable gait signals. A combination of features that include statistical features and spatiotemporal gait features are used as inputs to four different classifiers such as random forest, support vector machine, K nearest neighbour, and Naïve Bayes. In total, 20 PD subjects with definite motor fluctuations have been evaluated by comparing the performance of the proposed algorithm in association with the four aforementioned classifiers. It was found that random forest outperformed the other classifiers with an accuracy of 96.72%, a recall of 97.35%, and a precision of 96.92%.	Terenz Co., Limited, Busan 48060, Korea	10.3390/diagnostics10060421	2020	10	6	-	-	421	-
di Biase, Lazzaro; Di Santo, Alessandro; Caminiti, Maria; De Liso, Alfredo; Shah, Syed; Ricci, Lorenzo; Di Lazzaro, Vincenzo	Gait Analysis in Parkinson’s Disease: An Overview of the Most Accurate Markers for Diagnosis and Symptoms Monitoring	Sensors	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; gait analysis; diagnosis; symptoms monitoring; wearable; home-monitoring; machine learning	The aim of this review is to summarize that most relevant technologies used to evaluate gait features and the associated algorithms that have shown promise to aid diagnosis and symptom monitoring in Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients. We searched PubMed for studies published between 1 January 2005, and 30 August 2019 on gait analysis in PD. We selected studies that have either used technologies to distinguish PD patients from healthy subjects or stratified PD patients according to motor status or disease stages. Only those studies that reported at least 80% sensitivity and specificity were included. Gait analysis algorithms used for diagnosis showed a balanced accuracy range of 83.5–100%, sensitivity of 83.3–100% and specificity of 82–100%. For motor status discrimination the gait analysis algorithms showed a balanced accuracy range of 90.8–100%, sensitivity of 92.5–100% and specificity of 88–100%. Despite a large number of studies on the topic of objective gait analysis in PD, only a limited number of studies reported algorithms that were accurate enough deemed to be useful for diagnosis and symptoms monitoring. In addition, none of the reported algorithms and technologies has been validated in large scale, independent studies.	Unit of Neurology, Neurophysiology, Neurobiology, Department of Medicine, Università Campus Bio-Medico di Roma, Via Álvaro del Portillo 21, 00128 Rome, Italy	10.3390/s20123529	2020	20	12	-	-	3529	-
Song, Chao; Que, Suya; Heimer, Lucas; Que, Long	On-Chip Detection of the Biomarkers for Neurodegenerative Diseases: Technologies and Prospects	Micromachines	EN	Review	neurodegenerative diseases; on-chip detection; point-of-care diagnostics	Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD) and glaucoma are all regarded as neurodegenerative diseases (neuro-DDs) because these diseases are highly related to the degeneration loss of functions and death of neurons with aging. The conventional diagnostic methods such as neuroimaging for these diseases are not only expensive but also time-consuming, resulting in significant financial burdens for patients and public health challenge for nations around the world. Hence early detection of neuro-DDs in a cost-effective and rapid manner is critically needed. For the past decades, some chip-based detection technologies have been developed to address this challenge, showing great potential in achieving point-of-care (POC) diagnostics of neuro-DDs. In this review, chip-based detection of neuro-DDs’ biomarkers enabled by different transducing mechanisms is evaluated.	Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011, USA	10.3390/mi11070629	2020	11	7	-	-	629	-
Karaman Mayack, Berin; Sippl, Wolfgang; Ntie-Kang, Fidele	Natural Products as Modulators of Sirtuins	Molecules	EN	Review	natural products; sirtuin; drug discovery; epigenetics; structure–activity relationship	Natural products have been used for the treatment of human diseases since ancient history. Over time, due to the lack of precise tools and techniques for the separation, purification, and structural elucidation of active constituents in natural resources there has been a decline in financial support and efforts in characterization of natural products. Advances in the design of chemical compounds and the understanding of their functions is of pharmacological importance for the biomedical field. However, natural products regained attention as sources of novel drug candidates upon recent developments and progress in technology. Natural compounds were shown to bear an inherent ability to bind to biomacromolecules and cover an unparalleled chemical space in comparison to most libraries used for high-throughput screening. Thus, natural products hold a great potential for the drug discovery of new scaffolds for therapeutic targets such as sirtuins. Sirtuins are Class III histone deacetylases that have been linked to many diseases such as Parkinson`s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, type II diabetes, and cancer linked to aging. In this review, we examine the revitalization of interest in natural products for drug discovery and discuss natural product modulators of sirtuins that could serve as a starting point for the development of isoform selective and highly potent drug-like compounds, as well as the potential application of naturally occurring sirtuin inhibitors in human health and those in clinical trials.	Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Istanbul University, Istanbul 34116, Turkey	10.3390/molecules25143287	2020	25	14	-	-	3287	-
Lee, Joo-Eun; Sim, Hyuna; Yoo, Hee; Lee, Minhyung; Baek, Aruem; Jeon, Young-Joo; Seo, Kang-Sik; Son, Mi-Young; Yoon, Joo; Kim, Janghwan	Neuroprotective Effects of Cryptotanshinone in a Direct Reprogramming Model of Parkinson’s Disease	Molecules	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; cryptotanshinone; disease modeling; mitochondrial dysfunction; antioxidant	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a well-known age-related neurodegenerative disease. Considering the vital importance of disease modeling based on reprogramming technology, we adopted direct reprogramming to human-induced neuronal progenitor cells (hiNPCs) for in vitro assessment of potential therapeutics. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of cryptotanshinone (CTN), which has been reported to have antioxidant properties, through PD patient-derived hiNPCs (PD-iNPCs) model with induced oxidative stress and cell death by the proteasome inhibitor MG132. A cytotoxicity assay showed that CTN possesses anti-apoptotic properties in PD-hiNPCs. CTN treatment significantly reduced cellular apoptosis through mitochondrial restoration, such as the reduction in mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and increments of mitochondrial membrane potential. These effects of CTN are mediated via the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) pathway in PD-hiNPCs. Consequently, CTN could be a potential antioxidant reagent for preventing disease-related pathological phenotypes of PD.	Stem Cell Convergence Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Daejeon 34141, Korea	10.3390/molecules25163602	2020	25	16	-	-	3602	-
Ekundayo, Temitope; Okoh, Anthony	Systematic Assessment of Mycobacterium avium Subspecies Paratuberculosis Infections from 1911–2019: A Growth Analysis of Association with Human Autoimmune Diseases	Microorganisms	EN	Review	Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis; MAP; Johne’s disease; Type 1 diabetes mellitus; multiple sclerosis; sarcoidosis; thyroiditis disorders; psoriasis; ulcerative colitis; Parkinson’s disease; arthritis; Blau syndrome; rheumatoid arthritis; resistance; osteopontins	Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) is an understudied pathogen worldwide with continuous implications in human autoimmune diseases (ADs). The awareness of MAP appears to be low in many places and its research is at infant stage in many countries. The lack of worldwide coverage of the MAP research landscape calls for urgent research attention and prioritization. This present study aimed to assess MAP global research productivity with an emphasis on its implications in ADs via bibliometric and growth analytic frameworks from authors, countries, institutions, international, disciplines and collaboration network perspectives. MAP primary articles were retrieved from the Scopus database and the Web of Science from 1911 to 2019 via title-specific algorithm. Analytic results of dataset yielded a total of 3889 articles from 581 journals and 20.65 average citations per documents. The annual growth rate of MAP research for the period was 6.31%. Based on a country’s productivity (articles (%), freq. of publication (%)), the USA (887 (22.81%), 26.72%), and Australia (236 (6.07%), 6.07%) ranked the top 2 countries but Egypt and Germany had the highest average growth rate (AGR, 170%) in the last 3 years. MAP studies are generally limited to Europe, Australia, Asia, South America and few nations in Africa. It had positive growth rate (30%–100%) in relation to type 1 diabetes mellitus and rheumatoid arthritis ADs; food science and technology, immunology, agriculture, pathology, and research and experimental medicine, wildlife, environments, virulence, disease resistance, meat and meat products, osteopontin, waste milk and slurry/sludge digestion subjects; but negative growth (−130% to −30%) in ulcerative colitis and Parkinson’s disease and no growth in multiple sclerosis, sarcoidosis, thyroid disorders, psoriasis, and lupus. The mapping revealed a gross lack of collaboration networking in terms of authorship, (intra- and inter-) nationally and institutionally with a generalized collaboration index of 1.82. In conclusion, inadequate resources-, knowledge- and scientific-networking hampered growth and awareness of MAP research globally. The study recommends further research to strengthen evidence of MAP’s epidemiologic prevalence in ADs and proffer practical solution(s) for drug development and point-of-care diagnostics amongst other extended themes.	SAMRC Microbial Water Quality Monitoring Centre, University of Fort Hare, Alice 5700, South Africa	10.3390/microorganisms8081212	2020	8	8	-	-	1212	-
Bonilauri, Augusto; Sangiuliano Intra, Francesca; Pugnetti, Luigi; Baselli, Giuseppe; Baglio, Francesca	A Systematic Review of Cerebral Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy in Chronic Neurological Diseases—Actual Applications and Future Perspectives	Diagnostics	EN	Review	neurovascular coupling; fNIRS; neurological disease; neuroimaging; Parkinson’s Disease; Alzheimer’s Disease; Mild Cognitive Impairment	Background: The management of people affected by age-related neurological disorders requires the adoption of targeted and cost-effective interventions to cope with chronicity. Therapy adaptation and rehabilitation represent major targets requiring long-term follow-up of neurodegeneration or, conversely, the promotion of neuroplasticity mechanisms. However, affordable and reliable neurophysiological correlates of cerebral activity to be used throughout treatment stages are often lacking. The aim of this systematic review is to highlight actual applications of functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIRS) as a versatile optical neuroimaging technology for investigating cortical hemodynamic activity in the most common chronic neurological conditions. Methods: We reviewed studies investigating fNIRS applications in Parkinson’s Disease (PD), Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) as those focusing on motor and cognitive impairment in ageing and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) as the most common chronic neurological disease in young adults. The literature search was conducted on NCBI PubMed and Web of Science databases by PRISMA guidelines. Results: We identified a total of 63 peer-reviewed articles. The AD spectrum is the most investigated pathology with 40 articles ranging from the traditional monitoring of tissue oxygenation to the analysis of functional resting-state conditions or cognitive functions by means of memory and verbal fluency tasks. Conversely, applications in PD (12 articles) and MS (11 articles) are mainly focused on the characterization of motor functions and their association with dual-task conditions. The most investigated cortical area is the prefrontal cortex, since reported to play an important role in age-related compensatory mechanism and neurofunctional changes associated to these chronic neurological conditions. Interestingly, only 9 articles applied a longitudinal approach. Conclusion: The results indicate that fNIRS is mainly employed for the cross-sectional characterization of the clinical phenotypes of these pathologies, whereas data on its utility for longitudinal monitoring as surrogate biomarkers of disease progression and rehabilitation effects are promising but still lacking.	Department of Electronics, Information and Bioengineering, Politecnico di Milano, 20133 Milan, Italy	10.3390/diagnostics10080581	2020	10	8	-	-	581	-
Tejchman, Anna; Znój, Agnieszka; Chlebanowska, Paula; Frączek-Szczypta, Aneta; Majka, Marcin	Carbon Fibers as a New Type of Scaffold for Midbrain Organoid Development	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	organoid; Parkinson’s disease; carbon fibers; scaffold; 3D model; NURR1; LMX1A; TH; PITX3	The combination of induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology and 3D cell culture creates a unique possibility for the generation of organoids that mimic human organs in in vitro cultures. The use of iPS cells in organoid cultures enables the differentiation of cells into dopaminergic neurons, also found in the human midbrain. However, long-lasting organoid cultures often cause necrosis within organoids. In this work, we present carbon fibers (CFs) for medical use as a new type of scaffold for organoid culture, comparing them to a previously tested copolymer poly-(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) scaffold. We verified the physicochemical properties of CF scaffolds compared to PLGA in improving the efficiency of iPSC differentiation within organoids. The physicochemical properties of carbon scaffolds such as porosity, microstructure, or stability in the cellular environment make them a convenient material for creating in vitro organoid models. Through screening several genes expressed during the differentiation of organoids at crucial brain stages of development, we found that there is a correlation between PITX3, one of the key regulators of terminal differentiation, and the survival of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurons and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene expression. This makes organoids formed on carbon scaffolds an improved model containing mDA neurons convenient for studying midbrain-associated neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson’s disease.	Department of Transplantation, Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Pediatrics, Jagiellonian University Medical College, Wielicka 265, 30-663 Kraków, Poland	10.3390/ijms21175959	2020	21	17	-	-	5959	-
Sim, Tao; Tarini, Dinesh; Dheen, S.; Bay, Boon; Srinivasan, Dinesh	Nanoparticle-Based Technology Approaches to the Management of Neurological Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	neurological disorders; blood-brain barrier; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; cerebrovascular diseases; traumatic brain injury; nanoparticles	Neurological disorders are the most devastating and challenging diseases associated with the central nervous system (CNS). The blood-brain barrier (BBB) maintains homeostasis of the brain and contributes towards the maintenance of a very delicate microenvironment, impairing the transport of many therapeutics into the CNS and making the management of common neurological disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), cerebrovascular diseases (CVDs) and traumatic brain injury (TBI), exceptionally complicated. Nanoparticle (NP) technology offers a platform for the design of tissue-specific drug carrying systems owing to its versatile and modifiable nature. The prospect of being able to design NPs capable of successfully crossing the BBB, and maintaining a high drug bioavailability in neural parenchyma, has spurred much interest in the field of nanomedicine. NPs, which also come in an array of forms including polymeric NPs, solid lipid nanoparticles (SLNs), quantum dots and liposomes, have the flexibility of being conjugated with various macromolecules, such as surfactants to confer the physical or chemical property desired. These nanodelivery strategies represent potential novel and minimally invasive approaches to the treatment and diagnosis of these neurological disorders. Most of the strategies revolve around the ability of the NPs to cross the BBB via various influx mechanisms, such as adsorptive-mediated transcytosis (AMT) and receptor-mediated transcytosis (RMT), targeting specific biomarkers or lesions unique to that pathological condition, thereby ensuring high tissue-specific targeting and minimizing off-target side effects. In this article, insights into common neurological disorders and challenges of delivering CNS drugs due to the presence of BBB is provided, before an in-depth review of nanoparticle-based theranostic strategies.	Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore 117597, Singapore	10.3390/ijms21176070	2020	21	17	-	-	6070	-
Loewenbrück, Kai; Stein, Doron; Amelung, Volker; Bitterlich, Robert; Brumme, Martin; Falkenburger, Björn; Fehre, Annekathrin; Feige, Tim; Frank, Anika; Gißke, Carola; Helmert, Claudia; Kerkemeyer, Linda; Knapp, Andreas; Lang, Caroline; Leuner, Annegret; Lummer, Carina; Minkman, Mirella; Müller, Gabriele; van Munster, Marlena; Schlieter, Hannes; Themann, Peter; Zonneveld, Nick; Wolz, Martin	Parkinson Network Eastern Saxony (PANOS): Reaching Consensus for a Regional Intersectoral Integrated Care Concept for Patients with Parkinson’s Disease in the Region of Eastern Saxony, Germany	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Article	Parkinson disease; consensus; clinical pathway; integrated delivery of health care; patient care team; community networks; patient monitoring; telemedicine	As integrated care is recognized as crucial to meet the challenges of chronic conditions such as Parkinson’s disease (PD), integrated care networks have emerged internationally and throughout Germany. One of these networks is the Parkinson Network Eastern Saxony (PANOS). PANOS aims to deliver timely and equal care to PD patients with a collaborative intersectoral structured care pathway. Additional components encompass personalized case management, an electronic health record, and communicative and educative measures. To reach an intersectoral consensus of the future collaboration in PANOS, a structured consensus process was conducted in three sequential workshops. Community-based physicians, PD specialists, therapists, scientists and representatives of regulatory authorities and statutory health insurances were asked to rate core pathway-elements and supporting technological, personal and communicative measures. For the majority of core elements/planned measures, a consensus was reached, defined as an agreement by >75% of participants. Additionally, six representatives from all partners involved in the network-design independently assessed PANOS based on the Development Model for Integrated Care (DMIC), a validated model addressing the comprehensiveness and maturity of integrated care concepts. The results show that PANOS is currently in an early maturation state but has the potential to comprehensively represent the DMIC if all planned activities are implemented successfully. Despite the favorable high level of consensus regarding the PANOS concept and despite its potential to become a balanced integrated care concept according to the DMIC, its full implementation remains a considerable challenge.	Department of Neurology, University Hospital Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germany	10.3390/jcm9092906	2020	9	9	-	-	2906	-
Barbuti, Peter; Antony, Paul; Santos, Bruno; Massart, François; Cruciani, Gérald; Dording, Claire; Arias, Jonathan; Schwamborn, Jens; Krüger, Rejko	Using High-Content Screening to Generate Single-Cell Gene-Corrected Patient-Derived iPS Clones Reveals Excess Alpha-Synuclein with Familial Parkinson’s Disease Point Mutation A30P	Cells	EN	Article	CRISPR-Cas9; high-content screening (HCS); fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS); Parkinson’s disease (PD), patient-derived iPS; single-cell clones; isogenic cell lines; SNCA; alpha-synuclein; A30P	The generation of isogenic induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) lines using CRISPR-Cas9 technology is a technically challenging, time-consuming process with variable efficiency. Here we use fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) to sort biallelic CRISPR-Cas9 edited single-cell iPSC clones into high-throughput 96-well microtiter plates. We used high-content screening (HCS) technology and generated an in-house developed algorithm to select the correctly edited isogenic clones for continued expansion and validation. In our model we have gene-corrected the iPSCs of a Parkinson’s disease (PD) patient carrying the autosomal dominantly inherited heterozygous c.88G>C mutation in the SNCA gene, which leads to the pathogenic p.A30P form of the alpha-synuclein protein. Undertaking a PCR restriction-digest mediated clonal selection strategy prior to sequencing, we were able to post-sort validate each isogenic clone using a quadruple screening strategy prior to generating footprint-free isogenic iPSC lines, retaining a normal molecular karyotype, pluripotency and three germ-layer differentiation potential. Directed differentiation into midbrain dopaminergic neurons revealed that SNCA expression is reduced in the gene-corrected clones, which was validated by a reduction at the alpha-synuclein protein level. The generation of single-cell isogenic clones facilitates new insights in the role of alpha-synuclein in PD and furthermore is applicable across patient-derived disease models.	Translational Neuroscience, Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, L-4362 Luxembourg, Luxembourg	10.3390/cells9092065	2020	9	9	-	-	2065	-
Zampogna, Alessandro; Manoni, Alessandro; Asci, Francesco; Liguori, Claudio; Irrera, Fernanda; Suppa, Antonio	Shedding Light on Nocturnal Movements in Parkinson’s Disease: Evidence from Wearable Technologies	Sensors	EN	Review	parkinson’s disease; nocturnal movements; actigraphy; wearable sensors; polysomnography; akinesia; RBD	In Parkinson’s disease (PD), abnormal movements consisting of hypokinetic and hyperkinetic manifestations commonly lead to nocturnal distress and sleep impairment, which significantly impact quality of life. In PD patients, these nocturnal disturbances can reflect disease-related complications (e.g., nocturnal akinesia), primary sleep disorders (e.g., rapid eye movement behaviour disorder), or both, thus requiring different therapeutic approaches. Wearable technologies based on actigraphy and innovative sensors have been proposed as feasible solutions to identify and monitor the various types of abnormal nocturnal movements in PD. This narrative review addresses the topic of abnormal nocturnal movements in PD and discusses how wearable technologies could help identify and assess these disturbances. We first examine the pathophysiology of abnormal nocturnal movements and the main clinical and instrumental tools for the evaluation of these disturbances in PD. We then report and discuss findings from previous studies assessing nocturnal movements in PD using actigraphy and innovative wearable sensors. Finally, we discuss clinical and technical prospects supporting the use of wearable technologies for the evaluation of nocturnal movements.	Department of Human Neurosciences, Sapienza University of Rome, 00185 Rome, Italy	10.3390/s20185171	2020	20	18	-	-	5171	-
Otte, Karen; Ellermeyer, Tobias; Vater, Tim-Sebastian; Voigt, Marlen; Kroneberg, Daniel; Rasche, Ludwig; Krüger, Theresa; Röhling, Hanna; Kayser, Bastian; Mansow-Model, Sebastian; Klostermann, Fabian; Brandt, Alexander; Paul, Friedemann; Lipp, Axel; Schmitz-Hübsch, Tanja	Instrumental Assessment of Stepping in Place Captures Clinically Relevant Motor Symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease	Sensors	EN	Article	RGBD camera; movement analysis; Parkinson’s disease; postural instability	Fluctuations of motor symptoms make clinical assessment in Parkinson’s disease a complex task. New technologies aim to quantify motor symptoms, and their remote application holds potential for a closer monitoring of treatment effects. The focus of this study was to explore the potential of a stepping in place task using RGB-Depth (RGBD) camera technology to assess motor symptoms of people with Parkinson’s disease. In total, 25 persons performed a 40 s stepping in place task in front of a single RGBD camera (Kinect for Xbox One) in up to two different therapeutic states. Eight kinematic parameters were derived from knee movements to describe features of hypokinesia, asymmetry, and arrhythmicity of stepping. To explore their potential clinical utility, these parameters were analyzed for their Spearman’s Rho rank correlation to clinical ratings, and for intraindividual changes between treatment conditions using standard response mean and paired t-test. Test performance not only differed between ON and OFF treatment conditions, but showed moderate correlations to clinical ratings, specifically ratings of postural instability (pull test). Furthermore, the test elicited freezing in some subjects. Results suggest that this single standardized motor task is a promising candidate to assess an array of relevant motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. The simple technical test setup would allow future use by patients themselves.	NeuroCure Clinical Research Center, Charité–Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health, 10117 Berlin, Germany	10.3390/s20195465	2020	20	19	-	-	5465	-
Kouroupi, Georgia; Antoniou, Nasia; Prodromidou, Kanella; Taoufik, Era; Matsas, Rebecca	Patient-Derived Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Based Models in Parkinson’s Disease for Drug Identification	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	disease phenotypes; high-content screening; chemical libraries; disease-modifying drugs; hiPSC-derived neurons; hiPSC-based co-culture systems; brain organoids	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a common progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of striatal-projecting dopaminergic neurons of the ventral forebrain, resulting in motor and cognitive deficits. Despite extensive efforts in understanding PD pathogenesis, no disease-modifying drugs exist. Recent advances in cell reprogramming technologies have facilitated the generation of patient-derived models for sporadic or familial PD and the identification of early, potentially triggering, pathological phenotypes while they provide amenable systems for drug discovery. Emerging developments highlight the enhanced potential of using more sophisticated cellular systems, including neuronal and glial co-cultures as well as three-dimensional systems that better simulate the human pathophysiology. In combination with high-throughput high-content screening technologies, these approaches open new perspectives for the identification of disease-modifying compounds. In this review, we discuss current advances and the challenges ahead in the use of patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells for drug discovery in PD. We address new concepts implicating non-neuronal cells in disease pathogenesis and highlight the necessity for functional assays, such as calcium imaging and multi-electrode array recordings, to predict drug efficacy. Finally, we argue that artificial intelligence technologies will be pivotal for analysis of the large and complex data sets obtained, becoming game-changers in the process of drug discovery.	Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology-Stem Cells, Hellenic Pasteur Institute, 127 Vassilissis Sofias Avenue, 11521 Athens, Greece	10.3390/ijms21197113	2020	21	19	-	-	7113	-
Abbaspour, Saedeh; Fotouhi, Faranak; Sedaghatbaf, Ali; Fotouhi, Hossein; Vahabi, Maryam; Linden, Maria	A Comparative Analysis of Hybrid Deep Learning Models for Human Activity Recognition	Sensors	EN	Letter	human activity recognition; deep learning; convolutional neural nets; long short-term memory; gated recurrent unit	Recent advances in artificial intelligence and machine learning (ML) led to effective methods and tools for analyzing the human behavior. Human Activity Recognition (HAR) is one of the fields that has seen an explosive research interest among the ML community due to its wide range of applications. HAR is one of the most helpful technology tools to support the elderly’s daily life and to help people suffering from cognitive disorders, Parkinson’s disease, dementia, etc. It is also very useful in areas such as transportation, robotics and sports. Deep learning (DL) is a branch of ML based on complex Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) that has demonstrated a high level of accuracy and performance in HAR. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) are two types of DL models widely used in the recent years to address the HAR problem. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the effectiveness of their integration in recognizing daily activities, e.g., walking. We analyze four hybrid models that integrate CNNs with four powerful RNNs, i.e., LSTMs, BiLSTMs, GRUs and BiGRUs. The outcomes of our experiments on the PAMAP2 dataset indicate that our proposed hybrid models achieve an outstanding level of performance with respect to several indicative measures, e.g., F-score, accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity.	School of Innovation, Design, and Engineering, Mälardalen University, 72220 Västerås, Sweden	10.3390/s20195707	2020	20	19	-	-	5707	-
Gentile, Francesco; Doneddu, Pietro; Riva, Nilo; Nobile-Orazio, Eduardo; Quattrini, Angelo	Diet, Microbiota and Brain Health: Unraveling the Network Intersecting Metabolism and Neurodegeneration	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	dysbiosis; diet; metabolism; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	Increasing evidence gives support for the idea that extra-neuronal factors may affect brain physiology and its predisposition to neurodegenerative diseases. Epidemiological and experimental studies show that nutrition and metabolic disorders such as obesity and type 2 diabetes increase the risk of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases after midlife, while the relationship with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is uncertain, but suggests a protective effect of features of metabolic syndrome. The microbiota has recently emerged as a novel factor engaging strong interactions with neurons and glia, deeply affecting their function and behavior in these diseases. In particular, recent evidence suggested that gut microbes are involved in the seeding of prion-like proteins and their spreading to the central nervous system. Here, we present a comprehensive review of the impact of metabolism, diet and microbiota in neurodegeneration, by affecting simultaneously several aspects of health regarding energy metabolism, immune system and neuronal function. Advancing technologies may allow researchers in the future to improve investigations in these fields, allowing the buildup of population-based preventive interventions and development of targeted therapeutics to halt progressive neurologic disability.	Experimental Neuropathology Unit, Institute of Experimental Neurology, Division of Neuroscience, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 20132 Milan, Italy	10.3390/ijms21207471	2020	21	20	-	-	7471	-
Shah, Vrutangkumar; McNames, James; Harker, Graham; Mancini, Martina; Carlson-Kuhta, Patricia; Nutt, John; El-Gohary, Mahmoud; Curtze, Carolin; Horak, Fay	Effect of Bout Length on Gait Measures in People with and without Parkinson’s Disease during Daily Life	Sensors	EN	Article	mobility; Parkinson’s disease; bout length; wearable sensors; daily life	Although the use of wearable technology to characterize gait disorders in daily life is increasing, there is no consensus on which specific gait bout length should be used to characterize gait. Clinical trialists using daily life gait quality as study outcomes need to understand how gait bout length affects the sensitivity and specificity of measures to discriminate pathological gait as well as the reliability of gait measures across gait bout lengths. We investigated whether Parkinson’s disease (PD) affects how gait characteristics change as bout length changes, and how gait bout length affects the reliability and discriminative ability of gait measures to identify gait impairments in people with PD compared to neurotypical Old Adults (OA). We recruited 29 people with PD and 20 neurotypical OA of similar age for this study. Subjects wore 3 inertial sensors, one on each foot and one over the lumbar spine all day, for 7 days. To investigate which gait bout lengths should be included to extract gait measures, we determined the range of gait bout lengths available across all subjects. To investigate if the effect of bout length on each gait measure is similar or not between subjects with PD and OA, we used a growth curve analysis. For reliability and discriminative ability of each gait measure as a function of gait bout length, we used the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and area under the curve (AUC), respectively. Ninety percent of subjects walked with a bout length of less than 53 strides during the week, and the majority (>50%) of gait bouts consisted of less than 12 strides. Although bout length affected all gait measures, the effects depended on the specific measure and sometimes differed for PD versus OA. Specifically, people with PD did not increase/decrease cadence and swing duration with bout length in the same way as OA. ICC and AUC characteristics tended to be larger for shorter than longer gait bouts. Our findings suggest that PD interferes with the scaling of cadence and swing duration with gait bout length. Whereas control subjects gradually increased cadence and decreased swing duration as bout length increased, participants with PD started with higher than normal cadence and shorter than normal stride duration for the smallest bouts, and cadence and stride duration changed little as bout length increased, so differences between PD and OA disappeared for the longer bout lengths. Gait measures extracted from shorter bouts are more common, more reliable, and more discriminative, suggesting that shorter gait bouts should be used to extract potential digital biomarkers for people with PD.	Department of Neurology, Oregon Health &amp;amp; Science University, Portland, OR 97239, USA	10.3390/s20205769	2020	20	20	-	-	5769	-
Locatelli, Patrick; Alimonti, Dario; Traversi, Gianluca; Re, Valerio	Classification of Essential Tremor and Parkinson’s Tremor Based on a Low-Power Wearable Device	Electronics	EN	Article	movement disorders; essential tremor; Parkinson’s disease; Parkinsonian tremor; wearable device	Among movement disorders, essential tremor is by far the most common, as much as eight times more prevalent than Parkinson’s disease. Although these two conditions differ in their presentation and course, clinicians do not always recognize them, leading to common misdiagnoses. Proper and early diagnosis is important for receiving the right treatment and support. In this paper, the development of a portable and reliable tremor classification system based on a wearable device, enabling clinicians to differentiate between essential tremor and Parkinson’s disease-associated one, is reported. Inertial data were collected from subjects with a well-established diagnosis of tremor, and analyzed to extract different sets of relevant spectral features. Supervised learning methods were then applied to build several classification models, among which the best ones achieved an average accuracy above 90%. Results encourage the use of wearable technology as effective and affordable tools to support clinicians.	Department of Engineering and Applied Sciences, University of Bergamo, Viale Marconi 5, 24044 Dalmine (BG), Italy	10.3390/electronics9101695	2020	9	10	-	-	1695	-
Viceconti, Marco; Hernandez Penna, Sabina; Dartee, Wilhelmus; Mazzà, Claudia; Caulfield, Brian; Becker, Clemens; Maetzler, Walter; Garcia-Aymerich, Judith; Davico, Giorgio; Rochester, Lynn	Toward a Regulatory Qualification of Real-World Mobility Performance Biomarkers in Parkinson’s Patients Using Digital Mobility Outcomes	Sensors	EN	Perspective	inertial measurement unit; mobility performance; regulatory science	Wearable inertial sensors can be used to monitor mobility in real-world settings over extended periods. Although these technologies are widely used in human movement research, they have not yet been qualified by drug regulatory agencies for their use in regulatory drug trials. This is because the first generation of these sensors was unreliable when used on slow-walking subjects. However, intense research in this area is now offering a new generation of algorithms to quantify Digital Mobility Outcomes so accurate they may be considered as biomarkers in regulatory drug trials. This perspective paper summarises the work in the Mobilise-D consortium around the regulatory qualification of the use of wearable sensors to quantify real-world mobility performance in patients affected by Parkinson’s Disease. The paper describes the qualification strategy and both the technical and clinical validation plans, which have recently received highly supportive qualification advice from the European Medicines Agency. The scope is to provide detailed guidance for the preparation of similar qualification submissions to broaden the use of real-world mobility assessment in regulatory drug trials.	Department of Industrial Engineering, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of Bologna, 40136 Bologna, Italy	10.3390/s20205920	2020	20	20	-	-	5920	-
Yang, Dongyang; Xu, Wei	Clustering on Human Microbiome Sequencing Data: A Distance-Based Unsupervised Learning Model	Microorganisms	EN	Article	clustering; microbiome; unsupervised learning; high-dimension	Modeling and analyzing human microbiome allows the assessment of the microbial community and its impacts on human health. Microbiome composition can be quantified using 16S rRNA technology into sequencing data, which are usually skewed and heavy-tailed with excess zeros. Clustering methods are useful in personalized medicine by identifying subgroups for patients stratification. However, there is currently a lack of standardized clustering method for the complex microbiome sequencing data. We propose a clustering algorithm with a specific beta diversity measure that can address the presence-absence bias encountered for sparse count data and effectively measure the sample distances for sample stratification. Our distance measure used for clustering is derived from a parametric based mixture model producing sample-specific distributions conditional on the observed operational taxonomic unit (OTU) counts and estimated mixture weights. The method can provide accurate estimates of the true zero proportions and thus construct a precise beta diversity measure. Extensive simulation studies have been conducted and suggest that the proposed method achieves substantial clustering improvement compared with some widely used distance measures when a large proportion of zeros is presented. The proposed algorithm was implemented to a human gut microbiome study on Parkinson’s diseases to identify distinct microbiome states with biological interpretations.	Division of Biostatistics, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5T 3M7, Canada	10.3390/microorganisms8101612	2020	8	10	-	-	1612	-
Bacanoiu, Manuela; Mititelu, Radu; Danoiu, Mircea; Olaru, Gabriela; Buga, Ana	Functional Recovery in Parkinson’s Disease: Current State and Future Perspective	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; rehabilitation; physical exercises	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is one of the most frequent neurodegenerative disorders, affecting not only the motor function but also limiting the autonomy of affected people. In the last decade, the physical exercises of different intensities carried out by kinetic therapeutic activities, by robotic technologies or with the participation of sensory cues, have become increasingly appreciated in the management of Parkinson’s disease impairments. The aim of this paper was to evaluate the impact of physical exercises with and without physical devices on the motor and cognitive variables of PD patients. In order to achieve our objectives, we performed a systematic review of available original articles based on the impact of kinetic therapeutic activity. Through the search strategy, we selected original papers that were laboriously processed using characteristics related to physical therapy, or the tools used in physiological and psychological rehabilitation strategies for PD patients. In this study, we presented the most current intervention techniques in the rehabilitation programs of patients with Parkinson’s disease, namely the use of assisted devices, virtual imagery or the performing of physical therapies that have the capacity to improve walking deficits, tremor and bradykinesia, to reduce freezing episodes of gait and postural instability, or to improve motor and cognitive functions.	Department of Physical Therapy and Sports Medicine, University of Craiova, 200207 Craiova, Romania	10.3390/jcm9113413	2020	9	11	-	-	3413	-
Watts, Jeremy; Khojandi, Anahita; Shylo, Oleg; Ramdhani, Ritesh	Machine Learning’s Application in Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson’s Disease: A Review	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	machine learning; deep brain stimulation; Parkinson’s disease	Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a surgical treatment for advanced Parkinson’s disease (PD) that has undergone technological evolution that parallels an expansion in clinical phenotyping, neurophysiology, and neuroimaging of the disease state. Machine learning (ML) has been successfully used in a wide range of healthcare problems, including DBS. As computational power increases and more data become available, the application of ML in DBS is expected to grow. We review the literature of ML in DBS and discuss future opportunities for such applications. Specifically, we perform a comprehensive review of the literature from PubMed, the Institute for Scientific Information’s Web of Science, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers’ (IEEE) Xplore Digital Library for ML applications in DBS. These studies are broadly placed in the following categories: (1) DBS candidate selection; (2) programming optimization; (3) surgical targeting; and (4) insights into DBS mechanisms. For each category, we provide and contextualize the current body of research and discuss potential future directions for the application of ML in DBS.	Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996, USA	10.3390/brainsci10110809	2020	10	11	-	-	809	-
Li, Bochen; Yao, Zhiming; Wang, Jianguo; Wang, Shaonan; Yang, Xianjun; Sun, Yining	Improved Deep Learning Technique to Detect Freezing of Gait in Parkinson’s Disease Based on Wearable Sensors	Electronics	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; freezing of gait; detection; deep learning; convolutional neural networks; long short-term memory; attention mechanism; squeeze-and-excitation block; data augmentation	Freezing of gait (FOG) is a paroxysmal dyskinesia, which is common in patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease (PD). It is an important cause of falls in PD patients and is associated with serious disability. In this study, we implemented a novel FOG detection system using deep learning technology. The system takes multi-channel acceleration signals as input, uses one-dimensional deep convolutional neural network to automatically learn feature representations, and uses recurrent neural network to model the temporal dependencies between feature activations. In order to improve the detection performance, we introduced squeeze-and-excitation blocks and attention mechanism into the system, and used data augmentation to eliminate the impact of imbalanced datasets on model training. Experimental results show that, compared with the previous best results, the sensitivity and specificity obtained in 10-fold cross-validation evaluation were increased by 0.017 and 0.045, respectively, and the equal error rate obtained in leave-one-subject-out cross-validation evaluation was decreased by 1.9%. The time for detection of a 256 data segment is only 0.52 ms. These results indicate that the proposed system has high operating efficiency and excellent detection performance, and is expected to be applied to FOG detection to improve the automation of Parkinson’s disease diagnosis and treatment.	Hefei Institutes of Physical Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China	10.3390/electronics9111919	2020	9	11	-	-	1919	-
Adamowicz, Lukas; Karahanoglu, F.; Cicalo, Christopher; Zhang, Hao; Demanuele, Charmaine; Santamaria, Mar; Cai, Xuemei; Patel, Shyamal	Assessment of Sit-to-Stand Transfers during Daily Life Using an Accelerometer on the Lower Back	Sensors	EN	Article	accelerometer; wearable technology; algorithm; free-living; sit-to-stand	The ability to perform sit-to-stand (STS) transfers has a significant impact on the functional mobility of an individual. Wearable technology has the potential to enable the objective, long-term monitoring of STS transfers during daily life. However, despite several recent efforts, most algorithms for detecting STS transfers rely on multiple sensing modalities or device locations and have predominantly been used for assessment during the performance of prescribed tasks in a lab setting. A novel wavelet-based algorithm for detecting STS transfers from data recorded using an accelerometer on the lower back is presented herein. The proposed algorithm is independent of device orientation and was validated on data captured in the lab from younger and older healthy adults as well as in people with Parkinson’s disease (PwPD). The algorithm was then used for processing data captured in free-living conditions to assess the ability of multiple features extracted from STS transfers to detect age-related group differences and assess the impact of monitoring duration on the reliability of measurements. The results show that performance of the proposed algorithm was comparable or significantly better than that of a commercially available system (precision: 0.990 vs. 0.868 in healthy adults) and a previously published algorithm (precision: 0.988 vs. 0.643 in persons with Parkinson’s disease). Moreover, features extracted from STS transfers at home were able to detect age-related group differences at a higher level of significance compared to data captured in the lab during the performance of prescribed tasks. Finally, simulation results showed that a monitoring duration of 3 days was sufficient to achieve good reliability for measurement of STS features. These results point towards the feasibility of using a single accelerometer on the lower back for detection and assessment of STS transfers during daily life. Future work in different patient populations is needed to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm, as well as assess the sensitivity and reliability of the STS features.	Pfizer, Inc., Cambridge, MA 02139, USA	10.3390/s20226618	2020	20	22	-	-	6618	-
Corrà, Marta; Warmerdam, Elke; Vila-Chã, Nuno; Maetzler, Walter; Maia, Luís	Wearable Health Technology to Quantify the Functional Impact of Peripheral Neuropathy on Mobility in Parkinson’s Disease: A Systematic Review	Sensors	EN	Review	peripheral neuropathy; Parkinson’s disease; wearable health technology; functional assessment	The occurrence of peripheral neuropathy (PNP) is often observed in Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients with a prevalence up to 55%, leading to more prominent functional deficits. Motor assessment with mobile health technologies allows high sensitivity and accuracy and is widely adopted in PD, but scarcely used for PNP assessments. This review provides a comprehensive overview of the methodologies and the most relevant features to investigate PNP and PD motor deficits with wearables. Because of the lack of studies investigating motor impairments in this specific subset of PNP-PD patients, Pubmed, Scopus, and Web of Science electronic databases were used to summarize the state of the art on PNP motor assessment with wearable technology and compare it with the existing evidence on PD. A total of 24 papers on PNP and 13 on PD were selected for data extraction: The main characteristics were described, highlighting major findings, clinical applications, and the most relevant features. The information from both groups (PNP and PD) was merged for defining future directions for the assessment of PNP-PD patients with wearable technology. We established suggestions on the assessment protocol aiming at accurate patient monitoring, targeting personalized treatments and strategies to prevent falls and to investigate PD and PNP motor characteristics.	Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar (ICBAS), R. Jorge de Viterbo Ferreira 228, 4050-313 Porto, Portugal	10.3390/s20226627	2020	20	22	-	-	6627	-
Karunaratne, Tennekoon; Okereke, Chijioke; Seamon, Marissa; Purohit, Sharad; Wakade, Chandramohan; Sharma, Amol	Niacin and Butyrate: Nutraceuticals Targeting Dysbiosis and Intestinal Permeability in Parkinson’s Disease	Nutrients	EN	Review	Parkinson’s diseases; brain-gut axis; microbiome; intestinal barrier; permeability; leaky gut; niacin; butyrate; GPR109A; nutraceutical	Dysbiosis is implicated by many studies in the pathogenesis of Parkinson’s disease (PD). Advances in sequencing technology and computing have resulted in confounding data regarding pathogenic bacterial profiles in conditions such as PD. Changes in the microbiome with reductions in short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing bacteria and increases in endotoxin-producing bacteria likely contribute to the pathogenesis of PD. GPR109A, a G-protein coupled receptor found on the surface of the intestinal epithelium and immune cells, plays a key role in controlling intestinal permeability and the inflammatory cascade. The absence of GPR109A receptors is associated with decreased concentration of tight junction proteins, leading to increased intestinal permeability and susceptibility to inflammation. In inflammatory states, butyrate acts via GPR109A to increase concentrations of tight junction proteins and improve intestinal permeability. Niacin deficiency is exacerbated in PD by dopaminergic medications. Niacin supplementation has been shown to shift macrophage polarization from pro-inflammatory to an anti-inflammatory profile. Niacin and butyrate, promising nutrients and unique ligands for the G protein-coupled receptor GPR109A, are reviewed in this paper in detail.	Digestive Health Clinical Research Center, Division of Gastroenterology/Hepatology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, 1120, 15th St, Augusta, GA 30912, USA	10.3390/nu13010028	2020	13	1	-	-	28	-
Borzì, Luigi; Mazzetta, Ivan; Zampogna, Alessandro; Suppa, Antonio; Olmo, Gabriella; Irrera, Fernanda	Prediction of Freezing of Gait in Parkinson’s Disease Using Wearables and Machine Learning	Sensors	EN	Article	wearable sensors; machine learning; freezing of gait (FOG); FOG prediction; levodopa; Parkinson’s disease; degradation of gait pattern	Freezing of gait (FOG) is one of the most troublesome symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, affecting more than 50% of patients in advanced stages of the disease. Wearable technology has been widely used for its automatic detection, and some papers have been recently published in the direction of its prediction. Such predictions may be used for the administration of cues, in order to prevent the occurrence of gait freezing. The aim of the present study was to propose a wearable system able to catch the typical degradation of the walking pattern preceding FOG episodes, to achieve reliable FOG prediction using machine learning algorithms and verify whether dopaminergic therapy affects the ability of our system to detect and predict FOG. Methods: A cohort of 11 Parkinson’s disease patients receiving (on) and not receiving (off) dopaminergic therapy was equipped with two inertial sensors placed on each shin, and asked to perform a timed up and go test. We performed a step-to-step segmentation of the angular velocity signals and subsequent feature extraction from both time and frequency domains. We employed a wrapper approach for feature selection and optimized different machine learning classifiers in order to catch FOG and pre-FOG episodes. Results: The implemented FOG detection algorithm achieved excellent performance in a leave-one-subject-out validation, in patients both on and off therapy. As for pre-FOG detection, the implemented classification algorithm achieved 84.1% (85.5%) sensitivity, 85.9% (86.3%) specificity and 85.5% (86.1%) accuracy in leave-one-subject-out validation, in patients on (off) therapy. When the classification model was trained with data from patients on (off) and tested on patients off (on), we found 84.0% (56.6%) sensitivity, 88.3% (92.5%) specificity and 87.4% (86.3%) accuracy. Conclusions: Machine learning models are capable of predicting FOG before its actual occurrence with adequate accuracy. The dopaminergic therapy affects pre-FOG gait patterns, thereby influencing the algorithm’s effectiveness.	Department of Control and Computer Engineering, Politecnico di Torino, 10129 Turin, Italy	10.3390/s21020614	2021	21	2	-	-	614	-
Channa, Asma; Ifrim, Rares-Cristian; Popescu, Decebal; Popescu, Nirvana	A-WEAR Bracelet for Detection of Hand Tremor and Bradykinesia in Parkinson’s Patients	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; tremor; bradykinesia; wearable technology; bracelet; machine learning	Parkinson’s disease patients face numerous motor symptoms that eventually make their life different from those of normal healthy controls. Out of these motor symptoms, tremor and bradykinesia, are relatively prevalent in all stages of this disease. The assessment of these symptoms is usually performed by traditional methods where the accuracy of results is still an open question. This research proposed a solution for an objective assessment of tremor and bradykinesia in subjects with PD (10 older adults aged greater than 60 years with tremor and 10 older adults aged greater than 60 years with bradykinesia) and 20 healthy older adults aged greater than 60 years. Physical movements were recorded by means of an AWEAR bracelet developed using inertial sensors, i.e., 3D accelerometer and gyroscope. Participants performed upper extremities motor activities as adopted by neurologists during the clinical assessment based on Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). For discriminating the patients from healthy controls, temporal and spectral features were extracted, out of which non-linear temporal and spectral features show greater difference. Both supervised and unsupervised machine learning classifiers provide good results. Out of 40 individuals, neural net clustering discriminated 34 individuals in correct classes, while the KNN approach discriminated 91.7% accurately. In a clinical environment, the doctor can use the device to comprehend the tremor and bradykinesia of patients quickly and with higher accuracy.	Computer Science Department, University POLITEHNICA of Bucharest, RO-060042 Bucharest, Romania	10.3390/s21030981	2021	21	3	-	-	981	-
De Marchi, Fabiola; Contaldi, Elena; Magistrelli, Luca; Cantello, Roberto; Comi, Cristoforo; Mazzini, Letizia	Telehealth in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Opportunities and Challenges for Patients and Physicians	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	neurodegeneration; neurology; telehealth; telemedicine; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s Disease; Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	Telehealth, by definition, is distributing health-related services while using electronic technologies. This narrative Review describes the technological health services (telemedicine and telemonitoring) for delivering care in neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s Disease, and amyotrophic lateral Sclerosis, among others. This paper aims to illustrate this approach’s primary experience and application, highlighting the strengths and weaknesses, with the goal of understanding which could be the most useful application for each one, in order to facilitate telehealth improvement and use in standard clinical practice. We also described the potential role of the COVID-19 pandemic to speed up this service’s use, avoiding a sudden interruption of medical care.	Department of Neurology and ALS Centre, Traslational Medicine, University of Piemonte Orientale, Maggiore della Carità Hospital, 28100 Novara, Italy	10.3390/brainsci11020237	2021	11	2	-	-	237	-
Fregly, Benjamin	A Conceptual Blueprint for Making Neuromusculoskeletal Models Clinically Useful	Applied Sciences	EN	Perspective	neuromusculoskeletal model; musculoskeletal model; computational model; model personalization; treatment optimization; treatment design; predictive simulation; human movement	The ultimate goal of most neuromusculoskeletal modeling research is to improve the treatment of movement impairments. However, even though neuromusculoskeletal models have become more realistic anatomically, physiologically, and neurologically over the past 25 years, they have yet to make a positive impact on the design of clinical treatments for movement impairments. Such impairments are caused by common conditions such as stroke, osteoarthritis, Parkinson’s disease, spinal cord injury, cerebral palsy, limb amputation, and even cancer. The lack of clinical impact is somewhat surprising given that comparable computational technology has transformed the design of airplanes, automobiles, and other commercial products over the same time period. This paper provides the author’s personal perspective for how neuromusculoskeletal models can become clinically useful. First, the paper motivates the potential value of neuromusculoskeletal models for clinical treatment design. Next, it highlights five challenges to achieving clinical utility and provides suggestions for how to overcome them. After that, it describes clinical, technical, collaboration, and practical needs that must be addressed for neuromusculoskeletal models to fulfill their clinical potential, along with recommendations for meeting them. Finally, it discusses how more complex modeling and experimental methods could enhance neuromusculoskeletal model fidelity, personalization, and utilization. The author hopes that these ideas will provide a conceptual blueprint that will help the neuromusculoskeletal modeling research community work toward clinical utility.	Department of Mechanical Engineering, Rice University, Houston, TX 77005, USA	10.3390/app11052037	2021	11	5	-	-	2037	-
Zhu, Xiao-Hong; Lee, Byeong-Yeul; Tuite, Paul; Coles, Lisa; Sathe, Abhishek; Chen, Chi; Cloyd, Jim; Low, Walter; Steer, Clifford; Chen, Wei	Quantitative Assessment of Occipital Metabolic and Energetic Changes in Parkinson’s Patients, Using In Vivo 31P MRS-Based Metabolic Imaging at 7T	Metabolites	EN	Article	cerebral ATP energy metabolism; human brain; in vivo 31P MRS-based metabolic imaging; neurodegenerative disease; ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA)	Abnormal energy metabolism associated with mitochondrial dysfunction is thought to be a major contributor to the progression of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson’s disease (PD). Recent advancements in the field of magnetic resonance (MR) based metabolic imaging provide state-of-the-art technologies for non-invasively probing cerebral energy metabolism under various brain conditions. In this proof-of-principle clinical study, we employed quantitative 31P MR spectroscopy (MRS) imaging techniques to determine a constellation of metabolic and bioenergetic parameters, including cerebral adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and other phosphorous metabolite concentrations, intracellular pH and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) redox ratio, and ATP production rates in the occipital lobe of cognitive-normal PD patients, and then we compared them with age-sex matched healthy controls. Small but statistically significant differences in intracellular pH, NAD and ATP contents and ATPase enzyme activity between the two groups were detected, suggesting that subtle defects in energy metabolism and mitochondrial function are quantifiable before regional neurological deficits or pathogenesis begin to occur in these patients. Pilot data aiming to evaluate the bioenergetic effect of mitochondrial-protective bile acid, ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) were also obtained. These results collectively demonstrated that in vivo 31P MRS-based neuroimaging can non-invasively and quantitatively assess key metabolic-energetic metrics in the human brain. This provides an exciting opportunity to better understand neurodegenerative diseases, their progression and response to treatment.	Center for Magnetic Resonance Research, Department of Radiology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA	10.3390/metabo11030145	2021	11	3	-	-	145	-
Costamagna, Gianluca; Comi, Giacomo; Corti, Stefania	Advancing Drug Discovery for Neurological Disorders Using iPSC-Derived Neural Organoids	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs); brain organoids; CRISPR-Cas9; drug discovery; disease modeling; neurological diseases; machine learning; single-cell sequencing; bioengineering; organoid imaging	In the last decade, different research groups in the academic setting have developed induced pluripotent stem cell-based protocols to generate three-dimensional, multicellular, neural organoids. Their use to model brain biology, early neural development, and human diseases has provided new insights into the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders, including microcephaly, autism, Parkinson’s disease, and Alzheimer’s disease. However, the adoption of organoid technology for large-scale drug screening in the industry has been hampered by challenges with reproducibility, scalability, and translatability to human disease. Potential technical solutions to expand their use in drug discovery pipelines include Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) to create isogenic models, single-cell RNA sequencing to characterize the model at a cellular level, and machine learning to analyze complex data sets. In addition, high-content imaging, automated liquid handling, and standardized assays represent other valuable tools toward this goal. Though several open issues still hamper the full implementation of the organoid technology outside academia, rapid progress in this field will help to prompt its translation toward large-scale drug screening for neurological disorders.	Dino Ferrari Centre, Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation (DEPT), Neuroscience Section, University of Milan, 20122 Milan, Italy	10.3390/ijms22052659	2021	22	5	-	-	2659	-
Williamson, James; Telfer, Brian; Mullany, Riley; Friedl, Karl	Detecting Parkinson’s Disease from Wrist-Worn Accelerometry in the U.K. Biobank	Sensors	EN	Article	in-the-wild; Parkinson’s disease; wearable accelerometers; U.K. Biobank	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a chronic movement disorder that produces a variety of characteristic movement abnormalities. The ubiquity of wrist-worn accelerometry suggests a possible sensor modality for early detection of PD symptoms and subsequent tracking of PD symptom severity. As an initial proof of concept for this technological approach, we analyzed the U.K. Biobank data set, consisting of one week of wrist-worn accelerometry from a population with a PD primary diagnosis and an age-matched healthy control population. Measures of movement dispersion were extracted from automatically segmented gait data, and measures of movement dimensionality were extracted from automatically segmented low-movement data. Using machine learning classifiers applied to one week of data, PD was detected with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.69 on gait data, AUC = 0.84 on low-movement data, and AUC = 0.85 on a fusion of both activities. It was also found that classification accuracy steadily improved across the one-week data collection, suggesting that higher accuracy could be achievable from a longer data collection. These results suggest the viability of using a low-cost and easy-to-use activity sensor for detecting movement abnormalities due to PD and motivate further research on early PD detection and tracking of PD symptom severity.	Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington, MA 02421, USA	10.3390/s21062047	2021	21	6	-	-	2047	-
Avazzadeh, Sahar; Baena, Jara; Keighron, Cameron; Feller-Sanchez, Yajaira; Quinlan, Leo	Modelling Parkinson’s Disease: iPSCs towards Better Understanding of Human Pathology	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; induced pluripotent stem cells; human pathology	Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms, among which are bradykinesia, rigidity, tremor as well as mental symptoms such as dementia. The underlying cause of Parkinson disease is degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. It has been challenging to develop an efficient animal model to accurately represent the complex phenotypes found with PD. However, it has become possible to recapitulate the myriad of phenotypes underlying the PD pathology by using human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology. Patient-specific iPSC-derived dopaminergic neurons are available and present an opportunity to study many aspects of the PD phenotypes in a dish. In this review, we report the available data on iPSC-derived neurons derived from PD patients with identified gene mutations. Specifically, we will report on the key phenotypes of the generated iPSC-derived neurons from PD patients with different genetic background. Furthermore, we discuss the relationship these cellular phenotypes have to PD pathology and future challenges and prospects for iPSC modelling and understanding of the pathogenesis of PD.	Physiology and CÚRAM SFI Centre for Research in Medical Devices, School of Medicine, National University of Ireland (NUI), H91 TK33 Galway, Ireland	10.3390/brainsci11030373	2021	11	3	-	-	373	-
Welzel, Julius; Wendtland, David; Warmerdam, Elke; Romijnders, Robbin; Elshehabi, Morad; Geritz, Johanna; Berg, Daniela; Hansen, Clint; Maetzler, Walter	Step Length Is a Promising Progression Marker in Parkinson’s Disease	Sensors	EN	Brief Report	gait; Parkinson’s disease; inertial measurement unit; movement disorders	Current research on Parkinson’s disease (PD) is increasingly concerned with the identification of objective and specific markers to make reliable statements about the effect of therapy and disease progression. Parameters from inertial measurement units (IMUs) are objective and accurate, and thus an interesting option to be included in the regular assessment of these patients. In this study, 68 patients with PD (PwP) in Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) stages 1–4 were assessed with two gait tasks—20 m straight walk and circular walk—using IMUs. In an ANCOVA model, we found a significant and large effect of the H&Y scores on step length in both tasks, and only a minor effect on step time. This study provides evidence that from the two potentially most important gait parameters currently accessible with wearable technology under supervised assessment strategies, step length changes substantially over the course of PD, while step time shows surprisingly little change in the progression of PD. These results show the importance of carefully evaluating quantitative gait parameters to make assumptions about disease progression, and the potential of the granular evaluation of symptoms such as gait deficits when monitoring chronic progressive diseases such as PD.	Department of Neurology, Kiel University, Arnold-Heller-Straße 3, 24105 Kiel, Germany	10.3390/s21072292	2021	21	7	-	-	2292	-
Lavorgna, Luigi; Brigo, Francesco; Esposito, Sabrina; Abbadessa, Gianmarco; Sparaco, Maddalena; Lanzillo, Roberta; Moccia, Marcello; Inglese, Matilde; Bonfanti, Luca; Trojsi, Francesca; Spina, Emanuele; Russo, Antonio; De Micco, Pasquale; Clerico, Marinella; Tedeschi, Gioacchino; Bonavita, Simona	Public Engagement and Neurology: An Update	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	public engagement; campaign; educational; awareness; fundraising; foundation; association; prevention	Background: Public engagement (PE) is defined as the involvement of “specialists who listen, develop their understanding, and interact with non-specialists in non-profit activities of educational, cultural, and social nature to engage the public in science-related matters”. The public health relevance of PE consists in building up a scientifically literate society, able to participate in and support scientific and technological developments and their implications for educational settings. Neurological disorders account for 35% of all diseases. PE could have a positive impact on the lives of people affected by neurological diseases. Method: This review evaluates the role of PE in dementia, stroke, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, migraine, neurogenetics, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Results and Conclusions: PE can provide accessible information, support research activities and prevention through appropriate lifestyles, and increase knowledge and awareness of neurological disorders, improving their diagnosis and treatment.	Division of Neurology, Department of Advanced Medical and Surgical Sciences, AOU—University of Campania “Luigi Vanvitelli”, P.zza Miraglia 2, 80138 Naples, Italy	10.3390/brainsci11040429	2021	11	4	-	-	429	-
Ma, Shi-Xun; Lim, Su	Single-Cell RNA Sequencing in Parkinson’s Disease	Biomedicines	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; single-cell RNA sequencing; bioinformatics	Single-cell and single-nucleus RNA sequencing (sc/snRNA-seq) technologies have enhanced the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson’s disease (PD). Nonetheless, their application in PD has been limited due mainly to the technical challenges resulting from the scarcity of postmortem brain tissue and low quality associated with RNA degradation. Despite such challenges, recent advances in animals and human in vitro models that recapitulate features of PD along with sequencing assays have fueled studies aiming to obtain an unbiased and global view of cellular composition and phenotype of PD at the single-cell resolution. Here, we reviewed recent sc/snRNA-seq efforts that have successfully characterized diverse cell-type populations and identified cell type-specific disease associations in PD. We also examined how these studies have employed computational and analytical tools to analyze and interpret the rich information derived from sc/snRNA-seq. Finally, we highlighted important limitations and emerging technologies for addressing key technical challenges currently limiting the integration of new findings into clinical practice.	Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA	10.3390/biomedicines9040368	2021	9	4	-	-	368	-
Albert, Katrina; Niskanen, Jonna; Kälvälä, Sara; Lehtonen, Šárka	Utilising Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells in Neurodegenerative Disease Research: Focus on Glia	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	astrocytes; microglia; oligodendrocytes; induced pluripotent stem cells; transplantation, organoids; neurodegenerative disease; humanized models	Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are a self-renewable pool of cells derived from an organism’s somatic cells. These can then be programmed to other cell types, including neurons. Use of iPSCs in research has been two-fold as they have been used for human disease modelling as well as for the possibility to generate new therapies. Particularly in complex human diseases, such as neurodegenerative diseases, iPSCs can give advantages over traditional animal models in that they more accurately represent the human genome. Additionally, patient-derived cells can be modified using gene editing technology and further transplanted to the brain. Glial cells have recently become important avenues of research in the field of neurodegenerative diseases, for example, in Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease. This review focuses on using glial cells (astrocytes, microglia, and oligodendrocytes) derived from human iPSCs in order to give a better understanding of how these cells contribute to neurodegenerative disease pathology. Using glia iPSCs in in vitro cell culture, cerebral organoids, and intracranial transplantation may give us future insight into both more accurate models and disease-modifying therapies.	Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK	10.3390/ijms22094334	2021	22	9	-	-	4334	-
Sobańska, Zuzanna; Roszak, Joanna; Kowalczyk, Kornelia; Stępnik, Maciej	Applications and Biological Activity of Nanoparticles of Manganese and Manganese Oxides in In Vitro and In Vivo Models	Nanomaterials	EN	Review	manganese oxides; nanoparticles; in vitro; in vivo; biological effects	The expanding applications of nanotechnology seem to be a response to many technological, environmental, and medical challenges. The unique properties of nanoparticles allow for developing new technologies and therapies. Among many investigated compounds is manganese and its oxides, which in the form of nanoparticles, could be a promising alternative for gadolinium-based contrast agents used in diagnostic imaging. Manganese, which is essential for living organisms as an enzyme cofactor, under excessive exposure—for example, due to water contamination or as an occupational hazard for welders—can lead to neurological disorders, including manganism—a condition similar to Parkinson’s disease. This review attempts to summarise the available literature data on the potential applications of manganese and manganese oxide nanoparticles and their biological activity. Some of the published studies, both in vitro and in vivo, show negative effects of exposure to manganese, mainly on the nervous system, whereas other data suggest that it is possible to develop functionalised nanoparticles with negligible toxicity and novel promising properties.	Department of Translational Research, Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine, 8 St Teresy St., 91-348 Łódź, Poland	10.3390/nano11051084	2021	11	5	-	-	1084	-
Lambert, Lester; Grotegut, Stefan; Celeridad, Maria; Gosalia, Palak; Backer, Laurent; Bobkov, Andrey; Salaniwal, Sumeet; Chung, Thomas; Zeng, Fu-Yue; Pass, Ian; Lombroso, Paul; Cosford, Nicholas; Tautz, Lutz	Development of a Robust High-Throughput Screening Platform for Inhibitors of the Striatal-Enriched Tyrosine Phosphatase (STEP)	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	protein tyrosine phosphatase; PTPN5; small-molecule screening; neurodegenerative disorders; Alzheimer’s disease	Many human diseases are the result of abnormal expression or activation of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) and protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs). Not surprisingly, more than 30 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are currently in clinical use and provide unique treatment options for many patients. PTPs on the other hand have long been regarded as “undruggable” and only recently have gained increased attention in drug discovery. Striatal-enriched tyrosine phosphatase (STEP) is a neuron-specific PTP that is overactive in Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders, including Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia, and fragile X syndrome. An emergent model suggests that the increase in STEP activity interferes with synaptic function and contributes to the characteristic cognitive and behavioral deficits present in these diseases. Prior efforts to generate STEP inhibitors with properties that warrant clinical development have largely failed. To identify novel STEP inhibitor scaffolds, we developed a biophysical, label-free high-throughput screening (HTS) platform based on the protein thermal shift (PTS) technology. In contrast to conventional HTS using STEP enzymatic assays, we found the PTS platform highly robust and capable of identifying true hits with confirmed STEP inhibitory activity and selectivity. This new platform promises to greatly advance STEP drug discovery and should be applicable to other PTP targets.	Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, NCI-Designated Cancer Center, 10901 N Torrey Pines Rd, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA	10.3390/ijms22094417	2021	22	9	-	-	4417	-
Bonaventura, Gabriele; Iemmolo, Rosario; Attaguile, Giuseppe; La Cognata, Valentina; Pistone, Brigida; Raudino, Giuseppe; D’Agata, Velia; Cantarella, Giuseppina; Barcellona, Maria; Cavallaro, Sebastiano	iPSCs: A Preclinical Drug Research Tool for Neurological Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	iPSCs; drug development; AD; ALS; PD; FRAX	The development and commercialization of new drugs is an articulated, lengthy, and very expensive process that proceeds through several steps, starting from target identification, screening new leading compounds for testing in preclinical studies, and subsequently in clinical trials to reach the final approval for therapeutic use. Preclinical studies are usually performed using both cell cultures and animal models, although they do not completely resume the complexity of human diseases, in particular neurodegenerative conditions. To this regard, stem cells represent a powerful tool in all steps of drug discovery. The recent advancement in induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSCs) technology has opened the possibility to obtain patient-specific disease models for drug screening and development. Here, we report the use of iPSCs as a disease model for drug development in the contest of neurological disorders, including Alzheimer’s (AD) and Parkinson’s disease (PD), Amyotrophic lateral Sclerosis (ALS), and Fragile X syndrome (FRAX).	Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation (IRIB), Italian National Research Council, 95126 Catania, Italy	10.3390/ijms22094596	2021	22	9	-	-	4596	-
Basavarajappa, Balapal; Subbanna, Shivakumar	Histone Methylation Regulation in Neurodegenerative Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	epigenetics; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; Huntington’s disease; Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; neuronal loss and alcohol	Advances achieved with molecular biology and genomics technologies have permitted investigators to discover epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and histone posttranslational modifications, which are critical for gene expression in almost all tissues and in brain health and disease. These advances have influenced much interest in understanding the dysregulation of epigenetic mechanisms in neurodegenerative disorders. Although these disorders diverge in their fundamental causes and pathophysiology, several involve the dysregulation of histone methylation-mediated gene expression. Interestingly, epigenetic remodeling via histone methylation in specific brain regions has been suggested to play a critical function in the neurobiology of psychiatric disorders, including that related to neurodegenerative diseases. Prominently, epigenetic dysregulation currently brings considerable interest as an essential player in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), Huntington’s disease (HD), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and drugs of abuse, including alcohol abuse disorder, where it may facilitate connections between genetic and environmental risk factors or directly influence disease-specific pathological factors. We have discussed the current state of histone methylation, therapeutic strategies, and future perspectives for these disorders. While not somatically heritable, the enzymes responsible for histone methylation regulation, such as histone methyltransferases and demethylases in neurons, are dynamic and reversible. They have become promising potential therapeutic targets to treat or prevent several neurodegenerative disorders. These findings, along with clinical data, may provide links between molecular-level changes and behavioral differences and provide novel avenues through which the epigenome may be targeted early on in people at risk for neurodegenerative disorders.	Division of Analytical Psychopharmacology, Nathan Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research, Orangeburg, NY 10962, USA	10.3390/ijms22094654	2021	22	9	-	-	4654	-
Badanjak, Katja; Fixemer, Sonja; Smajić, Semra; Skupin, Alexander; Grünewald, Anne	The Contribution of Microglia to Neuroinflammation in Parkinson’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	neuroinflammation; microglia; brain; neurodegeneration; animal models; iPSC; Parkinson’s disease	With the world’s population ageing, the incidence of Parkinson’s disease (PD) is on the rise. In recent years, inflammatory processes have emerged as prominent contributors to the pathology of PD. There is great evidence that microglia have a significant neuroprotective role, and that impaired and over activated microglial phenotypes are present in brains of PD patients. Thereby, PD progression is potentially driven by a vicious cycle between dying neurons and microglia through the instigation of oxidative stress, mitophagy and autophagy dysfunctions, a-synuclein accumulation, and pro-inflammatory cytokine release. Hence, investigating the involvement of microglia is of great importance for future research and treatment of PD. The purpose of this review is to highlight recent findings concerning the microglia-neuronal interplay in PD with a focus on human postmortem immunohistochemistry and single-cell studies, their relation to animal and iPSC-derived models, newly emerging technologies, and the resulting potential of new anti-inflammatory therapies for PD.	Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, L-4367 Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg	10.3390/ijms22094676	2021	22	9	-	-	4676	-
Varghese, Julian; Alen, Catharina; Fujarski, Michael; Schlake, Georg; Sucker, Julitta; Warnecke, Tobias; Thomas, Christine	Sensor Validation and Diagnostic Potential of Smartwatches in Movement Disorders	Sensors	EN	Article	smartwatches; artificial intelligence; movement disorders; Parkinson’s disease	Smartwatches provide technology-based assessments in Parkinson’s disease (PD). It is necessary to evaluate their reliability and accuracy in order to include those devices in an assessment. We present unique results for sensor validation and disease classification via machine learning (ML). A comparison setup was designed with two different series of Apple smartwatches, one Nanometrics seismometer and a high-precision shaker to measure tremor-like amplitudes and frequencies. Clinical smartwatch measurements were acquired from a prospective study including 450 participants with PD, differential diagnoses (DD) and healthy participants. All participants wore two smartwatches throughout a 15-min examination. Symptoms and medical history were captured on the paired smartphone. The amplitude error of both smartwatches reaches up to 0.005 g, and for the measured frequencies, up to 0.01 Hz. A broad range of different ML classifiers were cross-validated. The most advanced task of distinguishing PD vs. DD was evaluated with 74.1% balanced accuracy, 86.5% precision and 90.5% recall by Multilayer Perceptrons. Deep-learning architectures significantly underperformed in all classification tasks. Smartwatches are capable of capturing subtle tremor signs with low noise. Amplitude and frequency differences between smartwatches and the seismometer were under the level of clinical significance. This study provided the largest PD sample size of two-hand smartwatch measurements and our preliminary ML-evaluation shows that such a system provides powerful means for diagnosis classification and new digital biomarkers, but it remains challenging for distinguishing similar disorders.	Institute of Medical Informatics, University of Münster, 48149 Münster, Germany	10.3390/s21093139	2021	21	9	-	-	3139	-
La Cognata, Valentina; Morello, Giovanna; Cavallaro, Sebastiano	Omics Data and Their Integrative Analysis to Support Stratified Medicine in Neurodegenerative Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	neurodegenerative diseases; multi-omics; stratified medicine	Molecular and clinical heterogeneity is increasingly recognized as a common characteristic of neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), such as Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This heterogeneity makes difficult the development of early diagnosis and effective treatment approaches, as well as the design and testing of new drugs. As such, the stratification of patients into meaningful disease subgroups, with clinical and biological relevance, may improve disease management and the development of effective treatments. To this end, omics technologies—such as genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics—are contributing to offer a more comprehensive view of molecular pathways underlying the development of NDs, helping to differentiate subtypes of patients based on their specific molecular signatures. In this article, we discuss how omics technologies and their integration have provided new insights into the molecular heterogeneity underlying the most prevalent NDs, aiding to define early diagnosis and progression markers as well as therapeutic targets that can translate into stratified treatment approaches, bringing us closer to the goal of personalized medicine in neurology.	Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation (IRIB), Italian National Research Council (CNR), 95126 Catania, Italy	10.3390/ijms22094820	2021	22	9	-	-	4820	-
Watts, Jeremy; Khojandi, Anahita; Vasudevan, Rama; Nahab, Fatta; Ramdhani, Ritesh	Improving Medication Regimen Recommendation for Parkinson’s Disease Using Sensor Technology	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; wearable sensors; machine learning; levodopa; regimen; decision support tool; remote assessment; PKG; clustering	Parkinson’s disease medication treatment planning is generally based on subjective data obtained through clinical, physician-patient interactions. The Personal KinetiGraph™ (PKG) and similar wearable sensors have shown promise in enabling objective, continuous remote health monitoring for Parkinson’s patients. In this proof-of-concept study, we propose to use objective sensor data from the PKG and apply machine learning to cluster patients based on levodopa regimens and response. The resulting clusters are then used to enhance treatment planning by providing improved initial treatment estimates to supplement a physician’s initial assessment. We apply k-means clustering to a dataset of within-subject Parkinson’s medication changes—clinically assessed by the MDS-Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale-III (MDS-UPDRS-III) and the PKG sensor for movement staging. A random forest classification model was then used to predict patients’ cluster allocation based on their respective demographic information, MDS-UPDRS-III scores, and PKG time-series data. Clinically relevant clusters were partitioned by levodopa dose, medication administration frequency, and total levodopa equivalent daily dose—with the PKG providing similar symptomatic assessments to physician MDS-UPDRS-III scores. A random forest classifier trained on demographic information, MDS-UPDRS-III scores, and PKG time-series data was able to accurately classify subjects of the two most demographically similar clusters with an accuracy of 86.9%, an F1 score of 90.7%, and an AUC of 0.871. A model that relied solely on demographic information and PKG time-series data provided the next best performance with an accuracy of 83.8%, an F1 score of 88.5%, and an AUC of 0.831, hence further enabling fully remote assessments. These computational methods demonstrate the feasibility of using sensor-based data to cluster patients based on their medication responses with further potential to assist with medication recommendations.	Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996, USA	10.3390/s21103553	2021	21	10	-	-	3553	-
Thomas Broome, Sarah; Fisher, Teagan; Faiz, Alen; Keay, Kevin; Musumeci, Giuseppe; Al-Badri, Ghaith; Castorina, Alessandro	Assessing the Anti-Inflammatory Activity of the Anxiolytic Drug Buspirone Using CRISPR-Cas9 Gene Editing in LPS-Stimulated BV-2 Microglial Cells	Cells	EN	Article	microglia; dopamine D3 receptor; 5-hydroxytryptamine 1a receptor; neuroinflammation; Parkinson’s disease	Buspirone is an anxiolytic drug with robust serotonin receptor 1A (Htr1a) agonist activities. However, evidence has demonstrated that this drug also targets the dopamine D3 receptor (Drd3), where it acts as a potent antagonist. In vivo, Drd3 blockade is neuroprotective and reduces inflammation in models of Parkinson’s disease. To test if buspirone also elicited anti-inflammatory activities in vitro, we generated stable Drd3−/− and Htr1a−/− BV2 microglial cell lines using CRISPR-Cas9 technology and then tested the effects of buspirone after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. We found that LPS exposure had no effect on cell viability, except in Htr1a−/− cells, where viability was reduced (p < 0.001). Drug treatment reduced viability in Drd3−/− cells, but not in WT or Htr1a−/− cells. Buspirone counteracted LPS-induced NO release, NOS2, IL-1β and TNF-α gene expression in WT cells, whereas it exerted limited effects in Drd3−/− or Htr1a−/− microglia. In summary, our findings indicate that buspirone attenuates microglial polarization after LPS challenge. These results also highlight some major effects of Drd3 or Htr1a genetic ablation on microglial biology, raising important questions on the complex role of neurotransmitters in regulating microglia functions.	Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience (LCMN), School of Life Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia	10.3390/cells10061312	2021	10	6	-	-	1312	-
Barrachina-Fernández, Mercedes; Maitín, Ana; Sánchez-Ávila, Carmen; Romero, Juan	Wearable Technology to Detect Motor Fluctuations in Parkinson’s Disease Patients: Current State and Challenges	Sensors	EN	Review	Parkinson´s disease; motor fluctuations; sensors; motor symptoms; treatment	Monitoring of motor symptom fluctuations in Parkinson’s disease (PD) patients is currently performed through the subjective self-assessment of patients. Clinicians require reliable information about a fluctuation’s occurrence to enable a precise treatment rescheduling and dosing adjustment. In this review, we analyzed the utilization of sensors for identifying motor fluctuations in PD patients and the application of machine learning techniques to detect fluctuations. The review process followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. Ten studies were included between January 2010 and March 2021, and their main characteristics and results were assessed and documented. Five studies utilized daily activities to collect the data, four used concrete scenarios executing specific activities to gather the data, and only one utilized a combination of both situations. The accuracy for classification was 83.56–96.77%. In the studies evaluated, it was not possible to find a standard cleaning protocol for the signal captured, and there is significant heterogeneity in the models utilized and in the different features introduced in the models (using spatiotemporal characteristics, frequential characteristics, or both). The two most influential factors in the good performance of the classification problem are the type of features utilized and the type of model.	Programa en Ingeniería Biomédica (PhD), ETSI Telecomunicación, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (UPM), Avenida Complutense, 30, 28040 Madrid, Spain	10.3390/s21124188	2021	21	12	-	-	4188	-
Milano, Filippo; Cerro, Gianni; Santoni, Francesco; De Angelis, Alessio; Miele, Gianfranco; Rodio, Angelo; Moschitta, Antonio; Ferrigno, Luigi; Carbone, Paolo	Parkinson’s Disease Patient Monitoring: A Real-Time Tracking and Tremor Detection System Based on Magnetic Measurements	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; magnetic positioning; measurement system; tremor classification	Reliable diagnosis of early-stage Parkinson’s disease is an important task, since it permits the administration of a timely treatment, slowing the progression of the disease. Together with non-motor symptoms, other important signs of disease can be retrieved from the measurement of the movement trajectory and from tremor appearances. To measure these signs, the paper proposes a magnetic tracking system able to collect information about translational and vibrational movements in a spatial cubic domain, using a low-cost, low-power and highly accurate solution. These features allow the usage of the proposed technology to realize a portable monitoring system, that may be operated at home or in general practices, enabling telemedicine and preventing saturation of large neurological centers. Validation is based on three tests: movement trajectory tracking, a rest tremor test and a finger tapping test. These tests are considered in the Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale and are provided as case studies to prove the system’s capabilities to track and detect tremor frequencies. In the case of the tapping test, a preliminary classification scheme is also proposed to discriminate between healthy and ill patients. No human patients are involved in the tests, and most cases are emulated by means of a robotic arm, suitably driven to perform required tasks. Tapping test results show a classification accuracy of about 93% using a k-NN classification algorithm, while imposed tremor frequencies have been correctly detected by the system in the other two tests.	Department of Electrical and Information Engineering, University of Cassino and Southern Lazio, 03043 Cassino, Italy	10.3390/s21124196	2021	21	12	-	-	4196	-
Hyun, Soonsil; Shin, Dongyun	Chemical-Mediated Targeted Protein Degradation in Neurodegenerative Diseases	Life	EN	Review	neurodegenerative disease; protein degradation; drug design; ubiquitin-proteasome system; autophagy; protac	Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease, Huntington’s disease, and Parkinson’s disease, are a class of diseases that lead to dysfunction of cognition and mobility. Aggregates of misfolded proteins such as β-amyloid, tau, α-synuclein, and polyglutamates are known to be among the main causes of neurodegenerative diseases; however, they are considered to be some of the most challenging drug targets because they cannot be modulated by conventional small-molecule agents. Recently, the degradation of target proteins by small molecules has emerged as a new therapeutic modality and has garnered the interest of the researchers in the pharmaceutical industry. Bifunctional molecules that recruit target proteins to a cellular protein degradation machinery, such as the ubiquitin–proteasome system and autophagy–lysosome pathway, have been designed. The representative targeted protein degradation technologies include molecular glues, proteolysis-targeting chimeras, hydrophobic tagging, autophagy-targeting chimeras, and autophagosome-tethering compounds. Although these modalities have been shown to degrade many disease-related proteins, such technologies are expected to be potentially important for neurogenerative diseases caused by protein aggregation. Herein, we review the recent progress in chemical-mediated targeted protein degradation toward the discovery of drugs for neurogenerative diseases.	Gachon Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy, Gachon University, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon 21936, Korea	10.3390/life11070607	2021	11	7	-	-	607	-
Kamm, Christian P; Bohlhalter, Stephan; Pflugshaupt, Tobias; Vanbellingen, Tim; Nyffeler, Thomas	Patient-Tailored Multimodal Neurorehabilitation: The Lucerne Model	Clinical and Translational Neuroscience	EN	Article	patient-tailored; neurorehabilitation; rehabilitation; stroke; multiple sclerosis Parkinson’s disease	Neurorehabilitation is a rapidly developing subspecialty of neurology due to medical advances and growing knowledge on functional recovery from brain injury such as plasticity and regeneration in the nervous system. Furthermore, progress in modern technologies facilitate new therapeutic concepts. Patient-tailored, flexible multimodal neurorehabilitation is essential in neurological diseases due to the diversity of symptoms. In addition, rehabilitative treatment should be realized from disease onset. To fulfill these goals, the neurocenter of the Cantonal Hospital Lucerne established an uninterrupted treatment chain from the emergency stage to the social and occupational reintegration, which is described in this article with a focus on stroke, Parkinson’s disease, and multiple sclerosis patients.	Neurocenter, Luzerner Kantonsspital, 6000 Lucerne, Switzerland	10.1177/2514183x19875075	2019	3	2	-	-	16	-
Wu, Ying-Chieh; Sonninen, Tuuli-Maria; Peltonen, Sanni; Koistinaho, Jari; Lehtonen, Šárka	Blood–Brain Barrier and Neurodegenerative Diseases—Modeling with iPSC-Derived Brain Cells	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC); blood–brain barrier (BBB); neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs)	The blood–brain barrier (BBB) regulates the delivery of oxygen and important nutrients to the brain through active and passive transport and prevents neurotoxins from entering the brain. It also has a clearance function and removes carbon dioxide and toxic metabolites from the central nervous system (CNS). Several drugs are unable to cross the BBB and enter the CNS, adding complexity to drug screens targeting brain disorders. A well-functioning BBB is essential for maintaining healthy brain tissue, and a malfunction of the BBB, linked to its permeability, results in toxins and immune cells entering the CNS. This impairment is associated with a variety of neurological diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease. Here, we summarize current knowledge about the BBB in neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, we focus on recent progress of using human-induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived models to study the BBB. We review the potential of novel stem cell-based platforms in modeling the BBB and address advances and key challenges of using stem cell technology in modeling the human BBB. Finally, we highlight future directions in this area.	Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki, 00014 Helsinki, Finland	10.3390/ijms22147710	2021	22	14	-	-	7710	-
Bouça-Machado, Raquel; Pona-Ferreira, Filipa; Leitão, Mariana; Clemente, Ana; Vila-Viçosa, Diogo; Kauppila, Linda; Costa, Rui; Matias, Ricardo; Ferreira, Joaquim	Feasibility of a Mobile-Based System for Unsupervised Monitoring in Parkinson’s Disease	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; digital health; remote monitoring; sensors; wearable technology	Mobile health (mHealth) has emerged as a potential solution to providing valuable ecological information about the severity and burden of Parkinson’s disease (PD) symptoms in real-life conditions. Objective: The objective of our study was to explore the feasibility and usability of an mHealth system for continuous and objective real-life measures of patients’ health and functional mobility, in unsupervised settings. Methods: Patients with a clinical diagnosis of PD, who were able to walk unassisted, and had an Android smartphone were included. Patients were asked to answer a daily survey, to perform three weekly active tests, and to perform a monthly in-person clinical assessment. Feasibility and usability were explored as primary and secondary outcomes. An exploratory analysis was performed to investigate the correlation between data from the mKinetikos app and clinical assessments. Results: Seventeen participants (85%) completed the study. Sixteen participants (94.1%) showed a medium-to-high level of compliance with the mKinetikos system. A 6-point drop in the total score of the Post-Study System Usability Questionnaire was observed. Conclusions: Our results support the feasibility of the mKinetikos system for continuous and objective real-life measures of a patient’s health and functional mobility. The observed correlations of mKinetikos metrics with clinical data seem to suggest that this mHealth solution is a promising tool to support clinical decisions.	Instituto de Medicina Molecular, 1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal	10.3390/s21154972	2021	21	15	-	-	4972	-
Trudler, Dorit; Ghatak, Swagata; Lipton, Stuart	Emerging hiPSC Models for Drug Discovery in Neurodegenerative Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	neurodegeneration; Alzheimer’s disease	Neurodegenerative diseases affect millions of people worldwide and are characterized by the chronic and progressive deterioration of neural function. Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Huntington’s disease (HD), represent a huge social and economic burden due to increasing prevalence in our aging society, severity of symptoms, and lack of effective disease-modifying therapies. This lack of effective treatments is partly due to a lack of reliable models. Modeling neurodegenerative diseases is difficult because of poor access to human samples (restricted in general to postmortem tissue) and limited knowledge of disease mechanisms in a human context. Animal models play an instrumental role in understanding these diseases but fail to comprehensively represent the full extent of disease due to critical differences between humans and other mammals. The advent of human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) technology presents an advantageous system that complements animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. Coupled with advances in gene-editing technologies, hiPSC-derived neural cells from patients and healthy donors now allow disease modeling using human samples that can be used for drug discovery.	Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center and Department of Molecular Medicine, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA	10.3390/ijms22158196	2021	22	15	-	-	8196	-
Santos García, Diego; Blázquez-Estrada, Marta; Calopa, Matilde; Escamilla-Sevilla, Francisco; Freire, Eric; García Ruiz, Pedro; Grandas, Francisco; Kulisevsky, Jaime; López-Manzanares, Lydia; Martínez Castrillo, Juan; Mir, Pablo; Pagonabarraga, Javier; Pérez-Errazquin, Francisco; Salom, José; Tijero, Beatriz; Valldeoriola, Francesc; Yáñez, Rosa; Avilés, Arantxa; Luquín, María-Rosario	Present and Future of Parkinson’s Disease in Spain: PARKINSON-2030 Delphi Project	Brain Sciences	EN	Article	diagnosis; economic impact; epidemiology; management; mortality; Parkinson’s disease; quality of life; Spain; treatment	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a chronic progressive and irreversible disease and the second most common neurodegenerative disease worldwide. In Spain, it affects around 120.000–150.000 individuals, and its prevalence is estimated to increase in the future. PD has a great impact on patients’ and caregivers’ lives and also entails a substantial socioeconomic burden. The aim of the present study was to examine the current situation and the 10-year PD forecast for Spain in order to optimize and design future management strategies. This study was performed using the modified Delphi method to try to obtain a consensus among a panel of movement disorders experts. According to the panel, future PD management will improve diagnostic capacity and follow-up, it will include multidisciplinary teams, and innovative treatments will be developed. The expansion of new technologies and studies on biomarkers will have an impact on future PD management, leading to more accurate diagnoses, prognoses, and individualized therapies. However, the socio-economic impact of the disease will continue to be significant by 2030, especially for patients in advanced stages. This study highlighted the unmet needs in diagnosis and treatment and how crucial it is to establish recommendations for future diagnostic and therapeutic management of PD.	Department of Neurology, Complexo Universitario de A Coruña (CHUAC), C/As Xubias 84, 15006 A Coruña, Spain	10.3390/brainsci11081027	2021	11	8	-	-	1027	-
Zhang, Zhao; Li, Guangfei; Xu, Yong; Tang, Xiaoying	Application of Artificial Intelligence in the MRI Classification Task of Human Brain Neurological and Psychiatric Diseases: A Scoping Review	Diagnostics	EN	Review	artificial intelligence; machine learning; deep learning; human brain-related diseases; magnetic resonance image	Artificial intelligence (AI) for medical imaging is a technology with great potential. An in-depth understanding of the principles and applications of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), machine learning (ML), and deep learning (DL) is fundamental for developing AI-based algorithms that can meet the requirements of clinical diagnosis and have excellent quality and efficiency. Moreover, a more comprehensive understanding of applications and opportunities would help to implement AI-based methods in an ethical and sustainable manner. This review first summarizes recent research advances in ML and DL techniques for classifying human brain magnetic resonance images. Then, the application of ML and DL methods to six typical neurological and psychiatric diseases is summarized, including Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), major depressive disorder (MDD), schizophrenia (SCZ), attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Finally, the limitations of the existing research are discussed, and possible future research directions are proposed.	715-3 Teaching Building No.5, Department of Biomedical Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Beijing Institute of Technology, 5 South Zhongguancun Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100081, China	10.3390/diagnostics11081402	2021	11	8	-	-	1402	-
Bonaventura, Gabriele; Munafò, Antonio; Bellanca, Carlo; La Cognata, Valentina; Iemmolo, Rosario; Attaguile, Giuseppe; Di Mauro, Rosaria; Di Benedetto, Giulia; Cantarella, Giuseppina; Barcellona, Maria; Cavallaro, Sebastiano; Bernardini, Renato	Stem Cells: Innovative Therapeutic Options for Neurodegenerative Diseases?	Cells	EN	Review	stem cell therapy; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; immunomodulation	Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by the progressive loss of structure and/or function of both neurons and glial cells, leading to different degrees of pathology and loss of cognition. The hypothesis of circuit reconstruction in the damaged brain via direct cell replacement has been pursued extensively so far. In this context, stem cells represent a useful option since they provide tissue restoration through the substitution of damaged neuronal cells with exogenous stem cells and create a neuro-protective environment through the release of bioactive molecules for healthy neurons, as well. These peculiar properties of stem cells are opening to potential therapeutic strategies for the treatment of severe neurodegenerative disorders, for which the absence of effective treatment options leads to an increasingly socio-economic burden. Currently, the introduction of new technologies in the field of stem cells and the implementation of alternative cell tissues sources are pointing to exciting frontiers in this area of research. Here, we provide an update of the current knowledge about source and administration routes of stem cells, and review light and shadows of cells replacement therapy for the treatment of the three main neurodegenerative disorders (Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson’s, and Alzheimer’s disease).	Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation (IRIB), Italian National Research Council, 95126 Catania, Italy	10.3390/cells10081992	2021	10	8	-	-	1992	-
Ozawa, Hitoshi; Miyazawa, Taiki; Miyazawa, Teruo	Effects of Dietary Food Components on Cognitive Functions in Older Adults	Nutrients	EN	Review	aging; brain lipids; cognitive function; dietary food components; phospholipids; polyphenols; older adults; oxidative stress; reactive oxygen species; vitamins	Population aging has recently been an important issue as the number of elderly people is growing worldwide every year, and the extension of social security costs is financially costly. The increase in the number of elderly people with cognitive decline is a serious problem related to the aging of populations. Therefore, it is necessary to consider not only physical care but also cognitive patterns in the future care of older adults. Since food contains a variety of bioactive substances, dietary patterns may help improve age-related cognitive decline. However, the relationship between cognitive function and individual food components remains ambiguous as no clear efficacy or mechanism has been confirmed. Against this background, this review summarizes previous reports on the biological process of cognitive decline in the elderly and the relationship between individual compounds in foods and cognitive function, as well as the role of individual components of food in cognitive function, in the following order: lipids, carotenoids, vitamins, phenolic compounds, amino acids, peptides, and proteins. Based on the research presented in this review, a proper diet that preserves cognitive function has the potential to improve age-related cognitive decline, Alzheimer’s disease, and Parkinson’s disease. Hopefully, this review will help to trigger the development of new foods and technologies that improve aging and cognitive functions and extend the healthy life span.	New Industry Creation Hatchery Center (NICHe), Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8579, Japan	10.3390/nu13082804	2021	13	8	-	-	2804	-
Warmerdam, Elke; Romijnders, Robbin; Geritz, Johanna; Elshehabi, Morad; Maetzler, Corina; Otto, Jan; Reimer, Maren; Stuerner, Klarissa; Baron, Ralf; Paschen, Steffen; Beyer, Thorben; Dopcke, Denise; Eiken, Tobias; Ortmann, Hendrik; Peters, Falko; Recke, Felix; Riesen, Moritz; Rohwedder, Gothia; Schaade, Anna; Schumacher, Maike; Sondermann, Anton; Maetzler, Walter; Hansen, Clint	Proposed Mobility Assessments with Simultaneous Full-Body Inertial Measurement Units and Optical Motion Capture in Healthy Adults and Neurological Patients for Future Validation Studies: Study Protocol	Sensors	EN	Article	balance; chronic low back pain; gait; movement analysis; multiple sclerosis; Parkinson’s disease; stroke; wearable sensors	Healthy adults and neurological patients show unique mobility patterns over the course of their lifespan and disease. Quantifying these mobility patterns could support diagnosing, tracking disease progression and measuring response to treatment. This quantification can be done with wearable technology, such as inertial measurement units (IMUs). Before IMUs can be used to quantify mobility, algorithms need to be developed and validated with age and disease-specific datasets. This study proposes a protocol for a dataset that can be used to develop and validate IMU-based mobility algorithms for healthy adults (18–60 years), healthy older adults (>60 years), and patients with Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, a symptomatic stroke and chronic low back pain. All participants will be measured simultaneously with IMUs and a 3D optical motion capture system while performing standardized mobility tasks and non-standardized activities of daily living. Specific clinical scales and questionnaires will be collected. This study aims at building the largest dataset for the development and validation of IMU-based mobility algorithms for healthy adults and neurological patients. It is anticipated to provide this dataset for further research use and collaboration, with the ultimate goal to bring IMU-based mobility algorithms as quickly as possible into clinical trials and clinical routine.	Department of Neurology, Kiel University, Arnold-Heller-Str. 3, 24105 Kiel, Germany	10.3390/s21175833	2021	21	17	-	-	5833	-
Salmina, Alla; Kapkaeva, Marina; Vetchinova, Anna; Illarioshkin, Sergey	Novel Approaches Used to Examine and Control Neurogenesis in Parkinson′s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Parkinson′s disease; α-synuclein; neurogenesis; neural stem cell; neural progenitor cell; astrocyte; optogenetics	Neurogenesis is a key mechanism of brain development and plasticity, which is impaired in chronic neurodegeneration, including Parkinson’s disease. The accumulation of aberrant α-synuclein is one of the features of PD. Being secreted, this protein produces a prominent neurotoxic effect, alters synaptic plasticity, deregulates intercellular communication, and supports the development of neuroinflammation, thereby providing propagation of pathological events leading to the establishment of a PD-specific phenotype. Multidirectional and ambiguous effects of α-synuclein on adult neurogenesis suggest that impaired neurogenesis should be considered as a target for the prevention of cell loss and restoration of neurological functions. Thus, stimulation of endogenous neurogenesis or cell-replacement therapy with stem cell-derived differentiated neurons raises new hopes for the development of effective and safe technologies for treating PD neurodegeneration. Given the rapid development of optogenetics, it is not surprising that this method has already been repeatedly tested in manipulating neurogenesis in vivo and in vitro via targeting stem or progenitor cells. However, niche astrocytes could also serve as promising candidates for controlling neuronal differentiation and improving the functional integration of newly formed neurons within the brain tissue. In this review, we mainly focus on current approaches to assess neurogenesis and prospects in the application of optogenetic protocols to restore the neurogenesis in Parkinson’s disease.	Research Center of Neurology, 125367 Moscow, Russia	10.3390/ijms22179608	2021	22	17	-	-	9608	-
Levin, Oleg; Iakovleva, Olga; Coloman, Irina; Kuzmina, Anastasia	Could New Generations of Sensors Reshape the Management of Parkinson’s Disease?	Clinical and Translational Neuroscience	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; motor complications; motor fluctuations; dyskinesia; levodopa; sensor; mobile health; accelerometer; gyroscope; mobile application	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic neurologic disease that has a great impact on the patient’s quality of life. The natural course of the disease is characterized by an insidious onset of symptoms, such as rest tremor, shuffling gait, bradykinesia, followed by improvement with the initiation of dopaminergic therapy. However, this “honeymoon period” gradually comes to an end with the emergence of motor fluctuations and dyskinesia. PD patients need long-term treatments and monitoring throughout the day; however, clinical examinations in hospitals are often not sufficient for optimal management of the disease. Technology-based devices are a new comprehensive assessment method of PD patient’s symptoms that are easy to use and give unbiased measurements. This review article provides an exhaustive overview of motor complications of advanced PD and new approaches to the management of the disease using sensors.	Department of Neurology, Russian Medical Academy of Continuous Professional Education, 125009 Moscow, Russia	10.3390/ctn5020018	2021	5	2	-	-	18	-
Abyadeh, Morteza; Gupta, Vivek; Paulo, Joao; Gupta, Veer; Chitranshi, Nitin; Godinez, Angela; Saks, Danit; Hasan, Mafruha; Amirkhani, Ardeshir; McKay, Matthew; Salekdeh, Ghasem; Haynes, Paul; Graham, Stuart; Mirzaei, Mehdi	A Proteomic View of Cellular and Molecular Effects of Cannabis	Biomolecules	EN	Review	cannabis; cannabinoids; marijuana; tetrahydrocannabinol; cannabidiol; proteomics	Cannabis (Cannabis sativa), popularly known as marijuana, is the most commonly used psychoactive substance and is considered illicit in most countries worldwide. However, a growing body of research has provided evidence of the therapeutic properties of chemical components of cannabis known as cannabinoids against several diseases including Alzheimer’s disease (AD), multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and glaucoma; these have prompted changes in medicinal cannabis legislation. The relaxation of legal restrictions and increased socio-cultural acceptance has led to its increase in both medicinal and recreational usage. Several biochemically active components of cannabis have a range of effects on the biological system. There is an urgent need for more research to better understand the molecular and biochemical effects of cannabis at a cellular level, to understand fully its implications as a pharmaceutical drug. Proteomics technology is an efficient tool to rigorously elucidate the mechanistic effects of cannabis on the human body in a cell and tissue-specific manner, drawing conclusions associated with its toxicity as well as therapeutic benefits, safety and efficacy profiles. This review provides a comprehensive overview of both in vitro and in vivo proteomic studies involving the cellular and molecular effects of cannabis and cannabis-derived compounds.	ProGene Technologies Pty Ltd., Macquarie Park, Sydney, NSW 2113, Australia	10.3390/biom11101411	2021	11	10	-	-	1411	-
Sjögren, Magnus; Huttunen, Henri; Svenningsson, Per; Widner, Håkan	Genetically Targeted Clinical Trials in Parkinson’s Disease: Learning from the Successes Made in Oncology	Genes	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; neurodegenerative disorders; genetic targets; clinical trials; oncology; precision medicine	Clinical trials in neurodegenerative disorders have been associated with high rate of failures, while in oncology, the implementation of precision medicine and focus on genetically defined subtypes of disease and targets for drug development have seen an unprecedented success. With more than 20 genes associated with Parkinson’s disease (PD), most of which are highly penetrant and often cause early onset or atypical signs and symptoms, and an increasing understanding of the associated pathophysiology culminating in dopaminergic neurodegeneration, applying the technologies and designs into the field of neurodegeneration seems a logical step. This review describes some of the methods used in oncology clinical trials and some attempts in Parkinson’s disease and the potential of further implementing genetics, biomarkers and smart clinical trial designs in this disease area.	Herantis Pharma Plc, Bertel Jungin Aukio 1, 02600 Espoo, Finland	10.3390/genes12101529	2021	12	10	-	-	1529	-
Chandra, Jay; Muthupalaniappan, Siva; Shang, Zisheng; Deng, Richard; Lin, Raymond; Tolkova, Irina; Butts, Dignity; Sul, Daniel; Marzouk, Sammer; Bose, Soham; Chen, Alexander; Bhaskar, Anushka; Mantena, Sreekar; Press, Daniel	Screening of Parkinson’s Disease Using Geometric Features Extracted from Spiral Drawings	Brain Sciences	EN	Article	Parkinson’s Disease; biomarker; Archimedean Spiral; disease screening; digitized drawing; machine learning; feature extraction	Conventional means of Parkinson’s Disease (PD) screening rely on qualitative tests typically administered by trained neurologists. Tablet technologies that enable data collection during handwriting and drawing tasks may provide low-cost, portable, and instantaneous quantitative methods for high-throughput PD screening. However, past efforts to use data from tablet-based drawing processes to distinguish between PD and control populations have demonstrated only moderate classification ability. Focusing on digitized drawings of Archimedean spirals, the present study utilized data from the open-access ParkinsonHW dataset to improve existing PD drawing diagnostic pipelines. Random forest classifiers were constructed using previously documented features and highly-predictive, newly-proposed features that leverage the many unique mathematical characteristics of the Archimedean spiral. This approach yielded an AUC of 0.999 on the particular dataset we tested on, and more importantly identified interpretable features with good promise for generalization across diverse patient cohorts. It demonstrated the potency of mathematical relationships inherent to the drawing shape and the usefulness of sparse feature sets and simple models, which further enhance interpretability, in the face of limited sample size. The results of this study also inform suggestions for future drawing task design and data analytics (feature extraction, shape selection, task diversity, drawing templates, and data sharing).	Harvard College, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA	10.3390/brainsci11101297	2021	11	10	-	-	1297	-
Wang, Jing; Cao, Hong	Zebrafish and Medaka: Important Animal Models for Human Neurodegenerative Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	zebrafish; medaka; disease models; neurodegenerative	Animal models of human neurodegenerative disease have been investigated for several decades. In recent years, zebrafish (Danio rerio) and medaka (Oryzias latipes) have become popular in pathogenic and therapeutic studies about human neurodegenerative diseases due to their small size, the optical clarity of embryos, their fast development, and their suitability to large-scale therapeutic screening. Following the emergence of a new generation of molecular biological technologies such as reverse and forward genetics, morpholino, transgenesis, and gene knockout, many human neurodegenerative disease models, such as Parkinson’s, Huntington’s, and Alzheimer’s, were constructed in zebrafish and medaka. These studies proved that zebrafish and medaka genes are functionally conserved in relation to their human homologues, so they exhibit similar neurodegenerative phenotypes to human beings. Therefore, fish are a suitable model for the investigation of pathologic mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases and for the large-scale screening of drugs for potential therapy. In this review, we summarize the studies in modelling human neurodegenerative diseases in zebrafish and medaka in recent years.	State Key Laboratory of Freshwater Ecology and Biotechnology, Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Donghu South Road 7#, Wuhan 430072, China	10.3390/ijms221910766	2021	22	19	-	-	10766	-
Jakob, Verena; Küderle, Arne; Kluge, Felix; Klucken, Jochen; Eskofier, Bjoern; Winkler, Jürgen; Winterholler, Martin; Gassner, Heiko	Validation of a Sensor-Based Gait Analysis System with a Gold-Standard Motion Capture System in Patients with Parkinson’s Disease	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; wearables; inertial sensors; three-dimensional gait analysis; machine learning algorithm; spatiotemporal gait parameters	Digital technologies provide the opportunity to analyze gait patterns in patients with Parkinson’s Disease using wearable sensors in clinical settings and a home environment. Confirming the technical validity of inertial sensors with a 3D motion capture system is a necessary step for the clinical application of sensor-based gait analysis. Therefore, the objective of this study was to compare gait parameters measured by a mobile sensor-based gait analysis system and a motion capture system as the gold standard. Gait parameters of 37 patients were compared between both systems after performing a standardized 5 × 10 m walking test by reliability analysis using intra-class correlation and Bland–Altman plots. Additionally, gait parameters of an age-matched healthy control group (n = 14) were compared to the Parkinson cohort. Gait parameters representing bradykinesia and short steps showed excellent reliability (ICC > 0.96). Shuffling gait parameters reached ICC > 0.82. In a stridewise synchronization, no differences were observed for gait speed, stride length, stride time, relative stance and swing time (p > 0.05). In contrast, heel strike, toe off and toe clearance significantly differed between both systems (p < 0.01). Both gait analysis systems distinguish Parkinson patients from controls. Our results indicate that wearable sensors generate valid gait parameters compared to the motion capture system and can consequently be used for clinically relevant gait recordings in flexible environments.	Movement and Gait Lab, Sana-Krankenhaus Rummelsberg, 90592 Schwarzenbruck, Germany	10.3390/s21227680	2021	21	22	-	-	7680	-
Salchow-Hömmen, Christina; Schauer, Thomas; Müller, Philipp; Kühn, Andrea; Hofstoetter, Ursula; Wenger, Nikolaus	Algorithms for Automated Calibration of Transcutaneous Spinal Cord Stimulation to Facilitate Clinical Applications	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Article	automation; electromyography; noninvasive; Parkinson’s disease; posterior root-muscle reflexes; spasticity; spinal cord injury; spinal cord stimulation; transcutaneous	Transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation (tSCS) is a promising intervention that can benefit spasticity control and augment voluntary movement in spinal cord injury (SCI) and multiple sclerosis. Current applications require expert knowledge and rely on the thorough visual analysis of electromyographic (EMG) responses from lower-limb muscles to optimize attainable treatment effects. Here, we devised an automated tSCS setup by combining an electrode array placed over low-thoracic to mid-lumbar vertebrae, synchronized EMG recordings, and a self-operating stimulation protocol to systematically test various stimulation sites and amplitudes. A built-in calibration procedure classifies the evoked responses as reflexes or direct motor responses and identifies stimulation thresholds as recommendations for tSCS therapy. We tested our setup in 15 individuals (five neurologically intact, five SCI, and five Parkinson’s disease) and validated the results against blinded ratings from two clinical experts. Congruent results were obtained in 13 cases for electrode positions and in eight for tSCS amplitudes, with deviations of a maximum of one position and 5 to 10 mA in amplitude in the remaining cases. Despite these minor deviations, the calibration found clinically suitable tSCS settings in 13 individuals. In the remaining two cases, the automatic setup and both experts agreed that no reflex responses could be detected. The presented technological developments may facilitate the dissemination of tSCS into non-academic environments and broaden its use for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.	Department of Neurology, Charité–Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10117 Berlin, Germany	10.3390/jcm10225464	2021	10	22	-	-	5464	-
Chua, Lee-Kuen; Chung, Yu-Chen; Bellard, David; Swan, Laura; Gobreial, Nicole; Romano, Amanda; Glatt, Ryan; Bonaguidi, Michael; Lee, Darrin; Jin, Yi; Liu, Charles; Fisher, Beth	Gamified Dual-Task Training for Individuals with Parkinson Disease: An Exploratory Study on Feasibility, Safety, and Efficacy	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; integrated dual-task training; motor-cognitive training; gamified rehabilitation; neurotechnology; physical therapy modalities; optimized intervention; exergaming; neurological rehabilitation; patient-focused intervention	Objectives: The feasibility and safety of the use of neurorehabilitation technology (SMARTfit® Trainer system) by physical therapists in implementing a gamified physical-cognitive dual-task training (DTT) paradigm for individuals with Parkinson disease (IWPD) was examined. Additionally, the efficacy of this gamified DTT was compared to physical single-task training (STT), both of which were optimized using physio-motivational factors, on changes in motor and cognitive outcomes, and self-assessed disability in activities of daily living. Methods: Using a cross-over study design, eight participants with mild-to-moderate idiopathic PD (including one with mild cognitive impairment) completed both training conditions (i.e., gamified DTT and STT). For each training condition, the participants attended 2–3 sessions per week over 8.8 weeks on average, with the total amount of training being equivalent to 24 1 h sessions. A washout period averaging 11.5 weeks was inserted between training conditions. STT consisted of task-oriented training involving the practice of functional tasks, whereas for gamified DTT, the same task-oriented training was implemented simultaneously with varied cognitive games using an interactive training system (SMARTfit®). Both training conditions were optimized through continual adaptation to ensure the use of challenging tasks and to provide autonomy support. Training hours, heart rate, and adverse events were measured to assess the feasibility and safety of the gamified DTT protocol. Motor and cognitive function as well as perceived disability were assessed before and after each training condition. Results: Gamified DTT was feasible and safe for this cohort. Across participants, significant improvements were achieved in more outcome measures after gamified DTT than they were after STT. Individually, participants with specific demographic and clinical characteristics responded differently to the two training conditions. Conclusion: Physical therapists’ utilization of technology with versatile hardware configurations and customizable software application selections was feasible and safe for implementing a tailor-made intervention and for adapting it in real-time to meet the individualized, evolving training needs of IWPD. Specifically in comparison to optimized STT, there was a preliminary signal of efficacy for gamified DTT in improving motor and cognitive function as well as perceived disability in IWPD.	USC Neurorestoration Center, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA	10.3390/ijerph182312384	2021	18	23	-	-	12384	-
Möller, Jens; Zutter, Daniel; Riener, Robert	Technology-Based Neurorehabilitation in Parkinson’s Disease—A Narrative Review	Clinical and Translational Neuroscience	EN	Review	brain–computer interface; exergaming; Parkinson’s disease; robot-assisted therapies; virtual reality; wearables	This narrative review provides a brief overview of the current literature on technology-based interventions for the neurorehabilitation of persons with Parkinson’s disease (PD). The role of brain–computer interfaces, exergaming/virtual-reality-based exercises, robot-assisted therapies and wearables is discussed. It is expected that technology-based neurorehabilitation will gain importance in the management of PD patients, although it is often not clear yet whether this approach is superior to conventional therapies. High-intensity technology-based neurorehabilitation may hold promise with respect to neuroprotective or neurorestorative actions in PD. Overall, more research is required in order to obtain more data on the feasibility, efficacy and safety of technology-based neurorehabilitation in persons with PD.	Parkinson Center, Center for Neurological Rehabilitation, 8588 Zihlschlacht, Switzerland	10.3390/ctn5030023	2021	5	3	-	-	23	-
Ó Breasail, Mícheál; Biswas, Bijetri; Smith, Matthew; Mazhar, Md; Tenison, Emma; Cullen, Anisha; Lithander, Fiona; Roudaut, Anne; Henderson, Emily	Wearable GPS and Accelerometer Technologies for Monitoring Mobility and Physical Activity in Neurodegenerative Disorders: A Systematic Review	Sensors	EN	Systematic Review	Parkinson’s disease; Alzheimer’s disease; remote monitoring; sensors; GPS; accelerometry; movement/mobility; physical activity; wearable technology	Neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs) constitute an increasing global burden and can significantly impair an individual’s mobility, physical activity (PA), and independence. Remote monitoring has been difficult without relying on diaries/questionnaires which are more challenging for people with dementia to complete. Wearable global positioning system (GPS) sensors and accelerometers present a cost-effective and noninvasive way to passively monitor mobility and PA. In addition, changes in sensor-derived outcomes (such as walking behaviour, sedentary, and active activity) may serve as potential biomarkers of disease onset, progression, and response to treatment. We performed a systematic search across four databases to identify papers published within the past 5 years, in which wearable GPS or accelerometers were used to monitor mobility or PA in patients with common NDDs (Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, motor neuron diseases/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, vascular parkinsonism, and vascular dementia). Disease and technology-specific vocabulary were searched singly, and then in combination, identifying 4985 papers. Following deduplication, we screened 3115 papers and retained 28 studies following a full text review. One study used wearable GPS and accelerometers, while 27 studies used solely accelerometers in NDDs. GPS-derived measures had been validated against current gold standard measures in one Parkinson’s cohort, suggesting that the technology may be applicable to other NDDs. In contrast, accelerometers are widely utilised in NDDs and have been operationalised in well-designed clinical trials.	Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 1-5 Whiteladies Road, Bristol BS8 1NU, UK	10.3390/s21248261	2021	21	24	-	-	8261	-
Trapani, Adriana; Cometa, Stefania; De Giglio, Elvira; Corbo, Filomena; Cassano, Roberta; Di Gioia, Maria; Trombino, Sonia; Hossain, Md; Di Gioia, Sante; Trapani, Giuseppe; Conese, Massimo	Novel Nanoparticles Based on N,O-Carboxymethyl Chitosan-Dopamine Amide Conjugate for Nose-to-Brain Delivery	Pharmaceutics	EN	Article	dopamine; intranasal administration; polymeric conjugates; polymeric nanoparticles; fluorescent microscopy	A widely investigated approach to bypass the blood brain barrier is represented by the intranasal delivery of therapeutic agents exploiting the olfactory or trigeminal connections nose-brain. As for Parkinson’s disease (PD), characterized by dopaminergic midbrain neurons degeneration, currently there is no disease modifying therapy. Although several bio-nanomaterials have been evaluated for encapsulation of neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) or dopaminergic drugs in order to restore the DA content in parkinsonian patients, the premature leakage of the therapeutic agent limits this approach. To tackle this drawback, we undertook a study where the active was linked to the polymeric backbone by a covalent bond. Thus, novel nanoparticles (NPs) based on N,O-Carboxymethylchitosan-DA amide conjugate (N,O-CMCS-DA) were prepared by the nanoprecipitation method and characterized from a technological view point, cytotoxicity and uptake by Olfactory Ensheating Cells (OECs). Thermogravimetric analysis showed high chemical stability of N,O-CMCS-DA NPs and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy evidenced the presence of amide linkages on the NPs surface. MTT test indicated their cytocompatibility with OECs, while cytofluorimetry and fluorescent microscopy revealed the internalization of labelled N,O-CMCS-DA NPs by OECs, that was increased by the presence of mucin. Altogether, these findings seem promising for further development of N,O-CMCS-DA NPs for nose-to-brain delivery application in PD.	Department of Pharmacy-Drug Sciences, University of Bari “Aldo Moro”, 70125 Bari, Italy	10.3390/pharmaceutics14010147	2022	14	1	-	-	147	-
Zhu, Lynn; Boissy, Patrick; Duval, Christian; Zou, Guangyong; Jog, Mandar; Montero-Odasso, Manuel; Speechley, Mark	How Long Should GPS Recording Lengths Be to Capture the Community Mobility of An Older Clinical Population? A Parkinson’s Example	Sensors	EN	Article	wearable technology; community mobility; GPS; older adults; Parkinson’s disease; recording technique; sampling length	Wearable global position system (GPS) technology can help those working with older populations and people living with movement disorders monitor and maintain their mobility level. Health research using GPS often employs inconsistent recording lengths due to the lack of a standard minimum GPS recording length for a clinical context. Our work aimed to recommend a GPS recording length for an older clinical population. Over 14 days, 70 older adults with Parkinson’s disease wore the wireless inertial motion unit with GPS (WIMU-GPS) during waking hours to capture daily “time outside”, “trip count”, “hotspots count” and “area size travelled”. The longest recording length accounting for weekend and weekdays was ≥7 days of ≥800 daily minutes of data (14 participants with 156, 483.9 min recorded). We compared the error rate generated when using data based on recording lengths shorter than this sample. The smallest percentage errors were observed across all outcomes, except “hotspots count”, with daily recordings ≥500 min (8.3 h). Eight recording days will capture mobility variability throughout days of the week. This study adds empirical evidence to the sensor literature on the required minimum duration of GPS recording.	Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, ON N6A 5C1, Canada	10.3390/s22020563	2022	22	2	-	-	563	-
Rahman, Md.; Islam, Md.; Islam, Mohammad; Harun-Or-Rashid, Md.; Islam, Mahfuzul; Abdullah, Sabirin; Uddin, Mohammad; Das, Sumit; Rahaman, Md.; Ahmed, Muniruddin; Alhumaydhi, Fahad; Emran, Talha; Mohamed, Amany; Faruque, Mohammad; Khandaker, Mayeen; Mostafa-Hedeab, Gomaa	Stem Cell Transplantation Therapy and Neurological Disorders: Current Status and Future Perspectives	Biology	EN	Review	neurodegenerative diseases; neurons; Parkinson’s disease; red blood cell; stem cell; stroke	Neurodegenerative diseases are a global health issue with inadequate therapeutic options and an inability to restore the damaged nervous system. With advances in technology, health scientists continue to identify new approaches to the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Lost or injured neurons and glial cells can lead to the development of several neurological diseases, including Parkinson’s disease, stroke, and multiple sclerosis. In recent years, neurons and glial cells have successfully been generated from stem cells in the laboratory utilizing cell culture technologies, fueling efforts to develop stem cell-based transplantation therapies for human patients. When a stem cell divides, each new cell has the potential to either remain a stem cell or differentiate into a germ cell with specialized characteristics, such as muscle cells, red blood cells, or brain cells. Although several obstacles remain before stem cells can be used for clinical applications, including some potential disadvantages that must be overcome, this cellular development represents a potential pathway through which patients may eventually achieve the ability to live more normal lives. In this review, we summarize the stem cell-based therapies that have been explored for various neurological disorders, discuss the potential advantages and drawbacks of these therapies, and examine future directions for this field.	Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, Daffodil International University, Dhaka 1207, Bangladesh	10.3390/biology11010147	2022	11	1	-	-	147	-
Yefroyev, David; Jin, Sha	Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells for Treatment of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s Diseases	Biomedicines	EN	Review	induced pluripotent stem cells; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; neural cells; neural organoids; 3D bioprinting	Neurodegenerative diseases are a group of debilitating pathologies in which neuronal tissue dies due to the buildup of neurotoxic plaques, resulting in detrimental effects on cognitive ability, motor control, and everyday function. Stem cell technology offers promise in addressing this problem on multiple fronts, but the conventional sourcing of pluripotent stem cells involves harvesting from aborted embryonic tissue, which comes with strong ethical and practical concerns. The keystone discovery of induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology provides an alternative and endless source, circumventing the unfavorable issues with embryonic stem cells, and yielding fundamental advantages. This review highlights iPSC technology, the pathophysiology of two major neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, and then illustrates current state-of-the-art approaches towards the treatment of the diseases using iPSCs. The technologies discussed in the review emphasize in vitro therapeutic neural cell and organoid development for disease treatment, pathological modeling of neurodegenerative diseases, and 3D bioprinting as it applies to both.	Department of Biomedical Engineering, Thomas J. Watson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, State University of New York at Binghamton, Binghamton, NY 13902, USA	10.3390/biomedicines10020208	2022	10	2	-	-	208	-
Mc Ardle, Ríona; Del Din, Silvia; Morris, Rosie; Alcock, Lisa; Yarnall, Alison; Burn, David; Rochester, Lynn; Lawson, Rachael; on behalf of the ICICLE-PD Study Group	Factors Influencing Habitual Physical Activity in Parkinson’s Disease: Considering the Psychosocial State and Wellbeing of People with Parkinson’s and Their Carers	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; habitual physical activity; wearable technology; wellbeing; carer; accelerometer; psychosocial; remote monitoring	Participating in habitual physical activity (HPA) may slow onset of dependency and disability for people with Parkinson’s disease (PwP). While cognitive and physical determinants of HPA are well understood, psychosocial influences are not. This pilot study aimed to identify psychosocial factors associated with HPA to guide future intervention development. Sixty-four PwP participated in this study; forty had carer informants. PwP participants wore a tri-axial accelerometer on the lower back continuously for seven days at two timepoints (18 months apart), measuring volume, pattern and variability of HPA. Linear mixed effects analysis identified relationships between demographic, clinical and psychosocial data and HPA from baseline to 18 months. Key results in PwP with carers indicated that carer anxiety and depression were associated with increased HPA volume (p < 0.01), while poorer carer self-care was associated with reduced volume of HPA over 18 months (p < 0.01). Greater carer strain was associated with taking longer walking bouts after 18 months (p < 0.01). Greater carer depression was associated with lower variability of HPA cross-sectionally (p = 0.009). This pilot study provides preliminary novel evidence that psychosocial outcomes from PwP’s carers may impact HPA in Parkinson’s disease. Interventions to improve HPA could target both PwP and carers and consider approaches that also support psychosocial wellbeing.	Faculty of Medical Sciences, Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE4 5TG, UK	10.3390/s22030871	2022	22	3	-	-	871	-
Asci, Francesco; Vivacqua, Giorgio; Zampogna, Alessandro; D’Onofrio, Valentina; Mazzeo, Adolfo; Suppa, Antonio	Wearable Electrochemical Sensors in Parkinson’s Disease	Sensors	EN	Opinion	Parkinson’s disease; L-Dopa; biosensors; wearable sensors; electrochemical monitoring	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with widespread aggregation of α-synuclein and dopaminergic neuronal loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta. As a result, striatal dopaminergic denervation leads to functional changes in the cortico-basal-ganglia-thalamo-cortical loop, which in turn cause most of the parkinsonian signs and symptoms. Despite tremendous advances in the field in the last two decades, the overall management (i.e., diagnosis and follow-up) of patients with PD remains largely based on clinical procedures. Accordingly, a relevant advance in the field would require the development of innovative biomarkers for PD. Recently, the development of miniaturized electrochemical sensors has opened new opportunities in the clinical management of PD thanks to wearable devices able to detect specific biological molecules from various body fluids. We here first summarize the main wearable electrochemical technologies currently available and their possible use as medical devices. Then, we critically discuss the possible strengths and weaknesses of wearable electrochemical devices in the management of chronic diseases including PD. Finally, we speculate about possible future applications of wearable electrochemical sensors in PD, such as the attractive opportunity for personalized closed-loop therapeutic approaches.	IRCCS Neuromed, 86077 Pozzilli, IS, Italy	10.3390/s22030951	2022	22	3	-	-	951	-
Lai, Yun-Ru; Lien, Chia-Yi; Huang, Chih-Cheng; Lin, Wei-Che; Chen, Yueh-Sheng; Yu, Chiun-Chieh; Cheng, Ben-Chung; Kung, Chia-Te; Kung, Chien-Feng; Chiang, Yi-Fang; Hung, Yun-Ting; Chang, Hsueh-Wen; Lu, Cheng-Hsien	Clinical Disease Severity Mediates the Relationship between Stride Length and Speed and the Risk of Falling in Parkinson’s Disease	Journal of Personalized Medicine	EN	Article	fall risk; Parkinson’s disease; spatiotemporal parameters; three-step fall prediction model	The shuffling gait with slowed speed and reduced stride length has been considered classic clinical features in idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (PD), and the risk of falling increases as the disease progresses. This raises the possibility that clinical disease severity might mediate the relationship between stride length and speed and the risk of falling in patients with PD. Sixty-one patients with PD patients underwent the clinical scores as well as quantitative biomechanical measures during walking cycles before and after dopamine replacement therapy. Mediation analysis tests whether the direct effect of an independent variable (stride length and speed) on a dependent variable (three-step fall prediction model score) can be explained by the indirect influence of the mediating variable (Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) total scores). The results demonstrate that decreased stride length, straight walking speed, and turning speed is associated with increased three-step fall prediction model score (r = −0.583, p < 0.0001, r = −0.519, p < 0.0001, and r = −0.462, p < 0.0001, respectively). We further discovered that UPDRS total scores value is negatively correlated with stride length, straight walking, and turning speed (r = −0.651, p < 0.0001, r = −0.555, p < 0.0001, and r = −0.372, p = 0.005, respectively) but positively correlated with the fall prediction model score value (r = 0.527, p < 0.0001). Further mediation analysis shows that the UPDRS total score values serve as mediators between lower stride length, straight walking, and turning speed and higher fall prediction model score values. Our results highlighted the relationship among stride length and speed, clinical disease severity, and risk of falling. As decreased stride length and speed are hallmarks of falls, monitoring the changes of quantitative biomechanical measures along with the use of wearable technology in a longitudinal study can provide a scientific basis for pharmacology, rehabilitation programs, and selecting high-risk candidates for surgical treatment to reduce future fall risk.	Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung City 833401, Taiwan	10.3390/jpm12020192	2022	12	2	-	-	192	-
Mollinari, Cristiana; De Dominicis, Chiara; Lupacchini, Leonardo; Sansone, Luigi; Caprini, Davide; Casciola, Carlo; Wang, Ying; Zhao, Jian; Fini, Massimo; Russo, Matteo; Garaci, Enrico; Merlo, Daniela	Detection of Pathological Markers of Neurodegenerative Diseases following Microfluidic Direct Conversion of Patient Fibroblasts into Neurons	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	transdifferentiation; induced neurons; neurodegeneration; biomarkers; microfluidics	Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease are clinically diagnosed using neuropsychological and cognitive tests, expensive neuroimaging-based approaches (MRI and PET) and invasive and time-consuming lumbar puncture for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample collection to detect biomarkers. Thus, a rapid, simple and cost-effective approach to more easily access fluids and tissues is in great need. Here, we exploit the chemical direct reprogramming of patient skin fibroblasts into neurons (chemically induced neurons, ciNs) as a novel strategy for the rapid detection of different pathological markers of neurodegenerative diseases. We found that FAD fibroblasts have a reduced efficiency of reprogramming, and converted ciNs show a less complex neuronal network. In addition, ciNs from patients show misfolded protein accumulation and mitochondria ultrastructural abnormalities, biomarkers commonly associated with neurodegeneration. Moreover, for the first time, we show that microfluidic technology, in combination with chemical reprogramming, enables on-chip examination of disease pathological processes and may have important applications in diagnosis. In conclusion, ciNs on microfluidic devices represent a small-scale, non-invasive and cost-effective high-throughput tool for protein misfolding disease diagnosis and may be useful for new biomarker discovery, disease mechanism studies and design of personalised therapies.	Department of Neuroscience, Istituto Superiore di Sanita’, 00161 Rome, Italy	10.3390/ijms23042147	2022	23	4	-	-	2147	-
Borgnis, Francesca; Baglio, Francesca; Pedroli, Elisa; Rossetto, Federica; Meloni, Mario; Riva, Giuseppe; Cipresso, Pietro	A Psychometric Tool for Evaluating Executive Functions in Parkinson’s Disease	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Article	executive function; 360° environment; assessment; virtual reality; Parkinson’s disease; usability; user experience; engagement; patients	Recently, there has been an increasing interest in using 360° virtual-reality video for an ecologically valid assessment of executive functioning in the neurologic population. In this framework, we have developed the EXecutive-functions Innovative Tool (EXIT 360°), an original 360°-based instrument for a multicomponent, ecologically valid evaluation of executive functioning in Parkinson’s Disease (PD). This work aimed to test the usability and user experience of EXIT 360° in patients with PD (PwPD). Twenty-seven PwPD and twenty-seven healthy controls underwent an evaluation that involved: (1) usability assessment by the System Usability Scale and (2) evaluation of user experience using the ICT—Sense of Presence and User Experience Questionnaire. Results showed a satisfactory level of usability for patients (mean = 76.94 ± 9.18) and controls (mean = 80 ± 11.22), with good scores for usability and learnability. Regarding user experience, patients provided a positive overall impression of the tool, evaluating it as attractive, enjoyable, activating, and funny. Moreover, EXIT 360° showed good pragmatic (e.g., efficient, fast, clear) and hedonic quality (e.g., exciting, interesting, and creative). Finally, PwPD considered EXIT 360° as an original tool with high ecological validity (mean = 4.29 ± 0.61), spatial presence (mean = 3.11 ± 0.83) and engagement (mean = 3.43 ± 0.54) without relevant adverse effects. Technological expertise had no impact on performance. Overall, EXIT 360° appeared to be a usable, easy-to-learn, engaging, and innovative instrument for PD. Further studies will be conducted to deepen its efficacy in distinguishing between healthy subjects and patients with executive dysfunctions.	IRCCS Fondazione Don Carlo Gnocchi ONLUS, 20148 Milan, Italy	10.3390/jcm11051153	2022	11	5	-	-	1153	-
Giannakopoulou, Konstantina-Maria; Roussaki, Ioanna; Demestichas, Konstantinos	Internet of Things Technologies and Machine Learning Methods for Parkinson’s Disease Diagnosis, Monitoring and Management: A Systematic Review	Sensors	EN	Systematic Review	Parkinson’s disease; wearable technology; sensors; internet of things; artificial intelligence; machine learning; deep learning; remote monitoring; smart personalized healthcare	Parkinson’s disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disease that affects a large portion of the population, especially the elderly. It manifests with motor, cognitive and other types of symptoms, decreasing significantly the patients’ quality of life. The recent advances in the Internet of Things and Artificial Intelligence fields, including the subdomains of machine learning and deep learning, can support Parkinson’s disease patients, their caregivers and clinicians at every stage of the disease, maximizing the treatment effectiveness and minimizing the respective healthcare costs at the same time. In this review, the considered studies propose machine learning models, trained on data acquired via smart devices, wearable or non-wearable sensors and other Internet of Things technologies, to provide predictions or estimations regarding Parkinson’s disease aspects. Seven hundred and seventy studies have been retrieved from three dominant academic literature databases. Finally, one hundred and twelve of them have been selected in a systematic way and have been considered in the state-of-the-art systematic review presented in this paper. These studies propose various methods, applied on various sensory data to address different Parkinson’s disease-related problems. The most widely deployed sensors, the most commonly addressed problems and the best performing algorithms are highlighted. Finally, some challenges are summarized along with some future considerations and opportunities that arise.	School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, National Technical University of Athens, 15773 Athens, Greece	10.3390/s22051799	2022	22	5	-	-	1799	-
Maranesi, Elvira; Di Donna, Valentina; Pelliccioni, Giuseppe; Cameriere, Valentina; Casoni, Elisa; Baldoni, Renato; Benadduci, Marco; Rinaldi, Nadia; Fantechi, Lorenzo; Giammarchi, Cinzia; Luzi, Riccardo; Pelliccioni, Paolo; Di Rosa, Mirko; Scendoni, Pietro; Riccardi, Giovanni; Bevilacqua, Roberta	Acceptability and Preliminary Results of Technology-Assisted Balance Training in Parkinson’s Disease	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Article	older people; Parkinson’s Disease; balance; gait speed; technology-based intervention	(1) Background: Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is one of the most common causes of disability among older individuals. The advanced stages of PD are usually characterized by postural instability and, as a consequence, falls. Those are among the main factors that determine the quality of life, as well as the morbidity and mortality of a person with PD. In the field of PD rehabilitation, robotics is also rapidly gaining ground. As a primary aim, we evaluate the acceptability of the technology integrated intervention, using the Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Devices Scale (PIADS), in order to analyze the attitude of the participants towards the Tymo® system. As a secondary outcome, we assess the result of the rehabilitation treatment integrated with the Tymo® system on several patient’s features. (2) Methods: We studied a population of 16 patients with Parkinson’s Disease. Each recruited subject completed 10 treatment sessions, organized as two training sessions per week, for 5 weeks. The intervention included 30 min of traditional therapy and 20 min of technological treatment with a robotic system. PIADS is composed of three subscales (Competence subscale, Adaptability subscale, Self-esteem subscale) ranging from −3 to +3, reflecting, respectively, a negative or positive feeling towards the device. (3) Results: The Competence subscale, measuring feelings of competence and usefulness, obtained a score of 1.24 (SD = 0.78). The score of Adaptability subscale, indicating a willingness to try out new things and to take risks, was 1.83 (SD = 0.65). Finally, the Self-esteem subscale, indicating feelings of emotional health and happiness, reached a score of 1.31 (SD = 0.72). Moreover, statistical analysis reveals a significant effect on balance performance after intervention. (4) Conclusions: This feasibility study represents a starting point in the use of technology in the rehabilitation pathway of patients affected by Parkinson’s Disease. In fact, our results suggest that a standard therapy combined with an innovative treatment using Tymo® may be accepted by PD patients, which may benefit especially from preserving balance.	Scientific Direction, IRCCS INRCA, 60124 Ancona, Italy	10.3390/ijerph19052655	2022	19	5	-	-	2655	-
Hill, Derek; Stephenson, Diane; Brayanov, Jordan; Claes, Kasper; Badawy, Reham; Sardar, Sakshi; Fisher, Katherine; Lee, Susan; Bannon, Anthony; Roussos, George; Kangarloo, Tairmae; Terebaite, Viktorija; Müller, Martijn; Bhatnagar, Roopal; Adams, Jamie; Dorsey, E.; Cosman, Josh	Metadata Framework to Support Deployment of Digital Health Technologies in Clinical Trials in Parkinson’s Disease	Sensors	EN	Perspective	digital health technology; Parkinson’s disease; metadata standards	Sensor data from digital health technologies (DHTs) used in clinical trials provides a valuable source of information, because of the possibility to combine datasets from different studies, to combine it with other data types, and to reuse it multiple times for various purposes. To date, there exist no standards for capturing or storing DHT biosensor data applicable across modalities and disease areas, and which can also capture the clinical trial and environment-specific aspects, so-called metadata. In this perspectives paper, we propose a metadata framework that divides the DHT metadata into metadata that is independent of the therapeutic area or clinical trial design (concept of interest and context of use), and metadata that is dependent on these factors. We demonstrate how this framework can be applied to data collected with different types of DHTs deployed in the WATCH-PD clinical study of Parkinson’s disease. This framework provides a means to pre-specify and therefore standardize aspects of the use of DHTs, promoting comparability of DHTs across future studies.	Panoramic Digital Health, 38000 Grenoble, France	10.3390/s22062136	2022	22	6	-	-	2136	-
Payedimarri, Anil; Ratti, Matteo; Rescinito, Riccardo; Vanhaecht, Kris; Panella, Massimiliano	Effectiveness of Platform-Based Robot-Assisted Rehabilitation for Musculoskeletal or Neurologic Injuries: A Systematic Review	Bioengineering	EN	Review	robot-assisted training; neurorehabilitation; orthopedic rehabilitation; clinical effectiveness; platform-based robotic rehabilitation; Parkinson’s disease; stroke; spinal cord injuries	During the last ten years the use of robotic-assisted rehabilitation has increased significantly. Compared with traditional care, robotic rehabilitation has several potential advantages. Platform-based robotic rehabilitation can help patients recover from musculoskeletal and neurological conditions. Evidence on how platform-based robotic technologies can positively impact on disability recovery is still lacking, and it is unclear which intervention is most effective in individual cases. This systematic review aims to evaluate the effectiveness of platform-based robotic rehabilitation for individuals with musculoskeletal or neurological injuries. Thirty-eight studies met the inclusion criteria and evaluated the efficacy of platform-based rehabilitation robots. Our findings showed that rehabilitation with platform-based robots produced some encouraging results. Among the platform-based robots studied, the VR-based Rutgers Ankle and the Hunova were found to be the most effective robots for the rehabilitation of patients with neurological conditions (stroke, spinal cord injury, Parkinson’s disease) and various musculoskeletal ankle injuries. Our results were drawn mainly from studies with low-level evidence, and we think that our conclusions should be taken with caution to some extent and that further studies are needed to better evaluate the effectiveness of platform-based robotic rehabilitation devices.	Department of Translational Medicine (DIMET), Università del Piemonte Orientale, 28100 Novara, Italy	10.3390/bioengineering9040129	2022	9	4	-	-	129	-
Zingale, Elide; Bonaccorso, Angela; Carbone, Claudia; Musumeci, Teresa; Pignatello, Rosario	Drug Nanocrystals: Focus on Brain Delivery from Therapeutic to Diagnostic Applications	Pharmaceutics	EN	Review	nanomedicine; amorphism; central nervous system; solubility; nanotechnology	The development of new drugs is often hindered by low solubility in water, a problem common to nearly 90% of natural and/or synthetic molecules in the discovery pipeline. Nanocrystalline drug technology involves the reduction in the bulk particle size down to the nanosize range, thus modifying its physico-chemical properties with beneficial effects on drug bioavailability. Nanocrystals (NCs) are carrier-free drug particles surrounded by a stabilizer and suspended in an aqueous medium. Due to high drug loading, NCs maintain a potent therapeutic concentration to produce desirable pharmacological action, particularly useful in the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) diseases. In addition to the therapeutic purpose, NC technology can be applied for diagnostic scope. This review aims to provide an overview of NC application by different administration routes, especially focusing on brain targeting, and with a particular attention to therapeutic and diagnostic fields. NC therapeutic applications are analyzed for the most common CNS pathologies (i.e., Parkinson’s disease, psychosis, Alzheimer’s disease, etc.). Recently, a growing interest has emerged from the use of colloidal fluorescent NCs for brain diagnostics. Therefore, the use of NCs in the imaging of brain vessels and tumor cells is also discussed. Finally, the clinical effectiveness of NCs is leading to an increasing number of FDA-approved products, among which the NCs approved for neurological disorders have increased.	Laboratory of Drug Delivery Technology, Department of Drug and Health Sciences, University of Catania, Viale A. Doria 6, 95125 Catania, Italy	10.3390/pharmaceutics14040691	2022	14	4	-	-	691	-
Tan, Li; Tang, Kwan; Lim, Lynette; Ong, Jia; Park, Hyokeun; Jung, Sangyong	α-Synuclein at the Presynaptic Axon Terminal as a Double-Edged Sword	Biomolecules	EN	Review	α-synuclein; Parkinson’s disease; Lewy bodies (LB); dementia with Lewy bodies; synucleinopathy; presynaptic axon terminal; α-synuclein oligomerization; synaptic vesicle endocytosis; targeted therapy	α-synuclein (α-syn) is a presynaptic, lipid-binding protein strongly associated with the neuropathology observed in Parkinson’s disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and Alzheimer’s Disease (AD). In normal physiology, α-syn plays a pivotal role in facilitating endocytosis and exocytosis. Interestingly, mutations and modifications of precise α-syn domains interfere with α-syn oligomerization and nucleation that negatively affect presynaptic vesicular dynamics, protein expressions, and mitochondrial profiles. Furthermore, the integration of the α-syn oligomers into the presynaptic membrane results in pore formations, ion influx, and excitotoxicity. Targeted therapies against specific domains of α-syn, including the use of small organic molecules, monoclonal antibodies, and synthetic peptides, are being screened and developed. However, the prospect of an effective α-syn targeted therapy is still plagued by low permeability across the blood–brain barrier (BBB), and poor entry into the presynaptic axon terminals. The present review proposes a modification of current strategies, which includes the use of novel encapsulation technology, such as lipid nanoparticles, to bypass the BBB and deliver such agents into the brain.	Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology (IMCB), Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore 138667, Singapore	10.3390/biom12040507	2022	12	4	-	-	507	-
Witika, Bwalya; Poka, Madan; Demana, Patrick; Matafwali, Scott; Melamane, Siyabonga; Malungelo Khamanga, Sandile; Makoni, Pedzisai	Lipid-Based Nanocarriers for Neurological Disorders: A Review of the State-of-the-Art and Therapeutic Success to Date	Pharmaceutics	EN	Review	central nervous system; blood-brain barrier; brain-targeted drug delivery; lipid-based nanocarriers; neurodegenerative diseases	Neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and dementia are chronic and advanced diseases that are associated with loss of neurons and other related pathologies. Furthermore, these disorders involve structural and functional defections of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Consequently, advances in medicines and therapeutics have led to a better appreciation of various pathways associated with the development of neurodegenerative disorders, thus focusing on drug discovery and research for targeted drug therapy to the central nervous system (CNS). Although the BBB functions as a shield to prevent toxins in the blood from reaching the brain, drug delivery to the CNS is hindered by its presence. Owing to this, various formulation approaches, including the use of lipid-based nanocarriers, have been proposed to address shortcomings related to BBB permeation in CNS-targeted therapy, thus showing the potential of these carriers for translation into clinical use. Nevertheless, to date, none of these nanocarriers has been granted market authorization following the successful completion of all stages of clinical trials. While the aforementioned benefits of using lipid-based carriers underscores the need to fast-track their translational development into clinical practice, technological advances need to be initiated to achieve appropriate capacity for scale-up and the production of affordable dosage forms.	Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University, Pretoria 0208, South Africa	10.3390/pharmaceutics14040836	2022	14	4	-	-	836	-
Cunha, Anthony; Gaubert, Alexandra; Verget, Julien; Thiolat, Marie-Laure; Barthélémy, Philippe; Latxague, Laurent; Dehay, Benjamin	Trehalose-Based Nucleolipids as Nanocarriers for Autophagy Modulation: An In Vitro Study	Pharmaceutics	EN	Article	nucleolipids; nanoparticles; PLGA; trehalose; autophagy	The Autophagy Lysosomal Pathway is one of the most important mechanisms for removing dysfunctional cellular components. Increasing evidence suggests that alterations in this pathway play a pathogenic role in Parkinson’s disease, making it a point of particular vulnerability. Numerous studies have proposed nanotechnologies as a promising approach for delivering active substances within the central nervous system to treat and diagnose neurodegenerative diseases. In this context, the aim was to propose the development of a new pharmaceutical technology for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. We designed a trehalose-based nanosystem by combining both a small natural autophagy enhancer molecule named trehalose and an amphiphilic nucleolipid conjugate. To improve nucleolipid protection and cellular uptake, these conjugates were formulated by rapid mixing in either solid lipid nanoparticles (Ø = 120.4 ± 1.4 nm) or incorporated into poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticles (Ø = 167.2 ± 2.4 nm). In vitro biological assays demonstrated a safe and an efficient cellular uptake associated with autophagy induction. Overall, these nucleolipid-based formulations represent a promising new pharmaceutical tool to deliver trehalose and restore the autophagy impaired function.	Univ. Bordeaux, INSERM U1212, CNRS UMR 5320, ARNA, ARN: Régulations Naturelle et Artificielle, ChemBioPharm, 146 rue Léo Saignat, F-33076 Bordeaux, France	10.3390/pharmaceutics14040857	2022	14	4	-	-	857	-
Smid, Annemarie; Elting, Jan; van Dijk, J.; Otten, Bert; Oterdoom, D.; Tamasi, Katalin; Heida, Tjitske; van Laar, Teus; Drost, Gea	Intraoperative Quantification of MDS-UPDRS Tremor Measurements Using 3D Accelerometry: A Pilot Study	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Article	accelerometer; Parkinson’s disease; tremor; MDS-UPDRS; quantification; intraoperative	The most frequently used method for evaluating tremor in Parkinson’s disease (PD) is currently the internationally standardized Movement Disorder Society—Unified PD Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS). However, the MDS-UPDRS is associated with limitations, such as its inherent subjectivity and reliance on experienced raters. Objective motor measurements using accelerometry may overcome the shortcomings of visually scored scales. Therefore, the current study focuses on translating the MDS-UPDRS tremor tests into an objective scoring method using 3D accelerometry. An algorithm to measure and classify tremor according to MDS-UPDRS criteria is proposed. For this study, 28 PD patients undergoing neurosurgical treatment and 26 healthy control subjects were included. Both groups underwent MDS-UPDRS tests to rate tremor severity, while accelerometric measurements were performed at the index fingers. All measurements were performed in an off-medication state. Quantitative measures were calculated from the 3D acceleration data, such as tremor amplitude and area-under-the-curve of power in the 4–6 Hz range. Agreement between MDS-UPDRS tremor scores and objective accelerometric scores was investigated. The trends were consistent with the logarithmic relationship between tremor amplitude and MDS-UPDRS score reported in previous studies. The accelerometric scores showed a substantial concordance (>69.6%) with the MDS-UPDRS ratings. However, accelerometric kinetic tremor measures poorly associated with the given MDS-UPDRS scores (R2 < 0.3), mainly due to the noise between 4 and 6 Hz found in the healthy controls. This study shows that MDS-UDPRS tremor tests can be translated to objective accelerometric measurements. However, discrepancies were found between accelerometric kinetic tremor measures and MDS-UDPRS ratings. This technology has the potential to reduce rater dependency of MDS-UPDRS measurements and allow more objective intraoperative monitoring of tremor.	Department of Neurosurgery, University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The Netherlands	10.3390/jcm11092275	2022	11	9	-	-	2275	-
Chen, Chase; Sidransky, Ellen; Chen, Yu	Lyso-IP: Uncovering Pathogenic Mechanisms of Lysosomal Dysfunction	Biomolecules	EN	Review	lysosomes; lysosome isolation; Niemann-Pick type C	Lysosomes are ubiquitous membrane-bound organelles found in all eukaryotic cells. Outside of their well-known degradative function, lysosomes are integral in maintaining cellular homeostasis. Growing evidence has shown that lysosomal dysfunction plays an important role not only in the rare group of lysosomal storage diseases but also in a host of others, including common neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease. New technological advances have significantly increased our ability to rapidly isolate lysosomes from cells in recent years. The development of the Lyso-IP approach and similar methods now allow for lysosomal purification within ten minutes. Multiple studies using the Lyso-IP approach have revealed novel insights into the pathogenic mechanisms of lysosomal disorders, including Niemann-Pick type C disease, showing the immense potential for this technique. Future applications of rapid lysosomal isolation techniques are likely to greatly enhance our understanding of lysosomal dysfunction in rare and common neurodegeneration causes.	Section on Molecular Neurogenetics, Medical Genetics Branch, National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bld 35A, Room 1E623 35 Convent Drive, MSC 3708, Rockville, MD 20892, USA	10.3390/biom12050616	2022	12	5	-	-	616	-
Pantaleo, Ester; Monaco, Alfonso; Amoroso, Nicola; Lombardi, Angela; Bellantuono, Loredana; Urso, Daniele; Lo Giudice, Claudio; Picardi, Ernesto; Tafuri, Benedetta; Nigro, Salvatore; Pesole, Graziano; Tangaro, Sabina; Logroscino, Giancarlo; Bellotti, Roberto	A Machine Learning Approach to Parkinson’s Disease Blood Transcriptomics	Genes	EN	Article	blood transcriptomics; Parkinson’s disease; machine learning; xgboost; feature selection; oxidative stress; inflammation; mitochondrial dysfunction	The increased incidence and the significant health burden associated with Parkinson’s disease (PD) have stimulated substantial research efforts towards the identification of effective treatments and diagnostic procedures. Despite technological advancements, a cure is still not available and PD is often diagnosed a long time after onset when irreversible damage has already occurred. Blood transcriptomics represents a potentially disruptive technology for the early diagnosis of PD. We used transcriptome data from the PPMI study, a large cohort study with early PD subjects and age matched controls (HC), to perform the classification of PD vs. HC in around 550 samples. Using a nested feature selection procedure based on Random Forests and XGBoost we reached an AUC of 72% and found 493 candidate genes. We further discussed the importance of the selected genes through a functional analysis based on GOs and KEGG pathways.	Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare (INFN), Sezione di Bari, Via A. Orabona 4, 70125 Bari, Italy	10.3390/genes13050727	2022	13	5	-	-	727	-
Campo-Prieto, Pablo; Cancela-Carral, José; Rodríguez-Fuentes, Gustavo	Wearable Immersive Virtual Reality Device for Promoting Physical Activity in Parkinson’s Disease Patients	Sensors	EN	Brief Report	wearable technology; physical activity; Parkinson´s disease; movement/mobility; physiotherapy; neurological disorders; virtual reality exposure therapy; upper limb function; rehabilitation; disease management	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurological disorder that usually appears in the 6th decade of life and affects up to 2% of older people (65 years and older). Its therapeutic management is complex and includes not only pharmacological therapies but also physiotherapy. Exercise therapies have shown good results in disease management in terms of rehabilitation and/or maintenance of physical and functional capacities, which is important in PD. Virtual reality (VR) could promote physical activity in this population. We explore whether a commercial wearable head-mounted display (HMD) and the selected VR exergame could be suitable for people with mild–moderate PD. In all, 32 patients (78.1% men; 71.50 ± 11.80 years) were a part of the study. Outcomes were evaluated using the Simulator Sickness Questionnaire (SSQ), the System Usability Scale (SUS), the Game Experience Questionnaire (GEQ post-game module), an ad hoc satisfaction questionnaire, and perceived effort. A total of 60 sessions were completed safely (without adverse effects (no SSQ symptoms) and with low scores in the negative experiences of the GEQ (0.01–0.09/4)), satisfaction opinions were positive (88% considered the training “good” or “very good”), and the average usability of the wearable HMD was good (75.16/100). Our outcomes support the feasibility of a boxing exergame combined with a wearable commercial HMD as a suitable physical activity for PD and its applicability in different environments due to its safety, usability, low cost, and small size. Future research is needed focusing on postural instability, because it seems to be a symptom that could have an impact on the success of exergaming programs aimed at PD.	Department of Functional Biology and Health Sciences, Faculty of Physiotherapy, University of Vigo, 36005 Pontevedra, Spain	10.3390/s22093302	2022	22	9	-	-	3302	-
Grinevich, Vladimir; Zakirov, Amir; Berseneva, Uliana; Gerasimova, Elena; Gainetdinov, Raul; Budygin, Evgeny	Applying a Fast-Scan Cyclic Voltammetry to Explore Dopamine Dynamics in Animal Models of Neuropsychiatric Disorders	Cells	EN	Review	dopamine; neurotransmitter release; fast-scan cyclic voltammetry; addiction; Parkinson’s disease; schizophrenia	Progress in the development of technologies for the real-time monitoring of neurotransmitter dynamics has provided researchers with effective tools for the exploration of etiology and molecular mechanisms of neuropsychiatric disorders. One of these powerful tools is fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV), a technique which has progressively been used in animal models of diverse pathological conditions associated with alterations in dopamine transmission. Indeed, for several decades FSCV studies have provided substantial insights into our understanding of the role of abnormal dopaminergic transmission in pathogenetic mechanisms of drug and alcohol addiction, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia, etc. Here we review the applications of FSCV to research neuropsychiatric disorders with particular attention to recent technological advances.	Department of Neurobiology, Sirius University, 1 Olympic Ave., Sirius, Sochi 353340, Russia	10.3390/cells11091533	2022	11	9	-	-	1533	-
Bayarsaikhan, Govigerel; Bayarsaikhan, Delger; Lee, Jaewon; Lee, Bonghee	Targeting Scavenger Receptors in Inflammatory Disorders and Oxidative Stress	Antioxidants	EN	Review	AGEs; AOPPs; ALEs; scavenger receptors; oxidative stress; inflammation; gene knockout	Oxidative stress and inflammation cannot be considered as diseases themselves; however, they are major risk factors for the development and progression of the pathogenesis underlying many illnesses, such as cancer, neurological disorders (including Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease), autoimmune and metabolic disorders, etc. According to the results obtained from extensive studies, oxidative stress–induced biomolecules, such as advanced oxidation protein products, advanced glycation end products, and advanced lipoxidation end products, are critical for an accelerated level of inflammation and oxidative stress–induced cellular damage, as reflected in their strong affinity to a wide range of scavenger receptors. Based on the limitations of antioxidative and anti-inflammatory molecules in practical applications, targeting such interactions between harmful molecules and their cellular receptors/signaling with advances in gene engineering technology, such as CRISPR or TALEN, may prove to be a safe and effective alternative. In this review, we summarize the findings of recent studies focused on the deletion of scavenger receptors under oxidative stress as a development in the therapeutic approaches against the diseases linked to inflammation and the contribution of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), advanced lipid peroxidation products (ALEs), and advanced oxidation protein products (AOPPs).	Lee Gil Ya Cancer and Diabetes Institute, Gachon University, Incheon 406-840, Korea	10.3390/antiox11050936	2022	11	5	-	-	936	-
Kobus, Magdalena; Żądzińska, Elżbieta; Sitek, Aneta; Pełka, Jacek; Rożniecki, Jacek; Antoszewski, Bogusław	Risk of Migraine in Europeans with Low Melanin Levels—A Population Based Case-Control Study	Brain Sciences	EN	Article	migraine; melanin; headache; skin pigmentation; cutaneous colorimetry	Populations with a relatively low concentration of melanin, e.g., inhabitants of Europe, North America, and Australia, are the most vulnerable to the harmful effects of UV radiation. Individuals with fair phototype are at greatest risk of developing skin cancer. Several neurological studies present that light skin may modify the risk of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases. However, the relationship between migraine and skin pigmentation has not been investigated yet. The objective of this study is to provide evidence of the relationship between skin pigmentation and migraine prevalence in adults. We examined a group of 148 adults (33 men, 115 women) with migraine and a control group of 107 adults (43 men, 64 women). Parameters of skin pigmentation (melanin index, erythema index, CIElab, and RGB scales) were measured using a DSM II Cortex Technology dermospectrophotometer. Risk of migraine in lightly pigmented adults was elevated. Individuals with a low melanin index had over 3-fold increased risk of migraine (women: OR 3.53, men: OR 3.73). Fair phototype, which results from lightly pigmented skin, was associated with migraine prevalence. Migraineurs should take extra care to protect their skin from the negative effects of solar radiation.	Department of Anthropology, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection, University of Lodz, 90-237 Lodz, Poland	10.3390/brainsci12050620	2022	12	5	-	-	620	-
Vila-Viçosa, Diogo; Leitão, Mariana; Bouça-Machado, Raquel; Pona-Ferreira, Filipa; Alberto, Sara; Ferreira, Joaquim; Matias, Ricardo	Smartphone-Based Body Location-Independent Functional Mobility Analysis in Patients with Parkinson’s Disease: A Step towards Precise Medicine	Journal of Personalized Medicine	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; digital health; inertial sensors; wearable technology; gait evaluation; spatiotemporal gait metrics	Ecological evaluation of gait using mobile technologies provides crucial information regarding the evolution of symptoms in Parkinson’s disease (PD). However, the reliability and validity of such information may be influenced by the smartphone’s location on the body. This study analyzed how the smartphone location affects the assessment of PD patients’ gait in a free-living environment. Twenty PD patients (mean ± SD age, 64.3 ± 10.6 years; 9 women (45%) performed 3 trials of a 250 m outdoor walk using smartphones in 5 different body locations (pants pocket, belt, hand, shirt pocket, and a shoulder bag). A method to derive gait-related metrics from smartphone sensors is presented, and its reliability is evaluated between different trials as well as its concurrent validity against optoelectronic and smartphone criteria. Excellent relative reliability was found with all intraclass correlation coefficient values above or equal to 0.85. High absolute reliability was observed in 21 out of 30 comparisons. Bland-Altman analysis revealed a high level of agreement (LoA between 4.4 and 17.5%), supporting the use of the presented method. This study advances the use of mobile technology to accurately and reliably quantify gait-related metrics from PD patients in free-living walking regardless of the smartphone’s location on the body.	Kinetikos, 3030-199 Coimbra, Portugal	10.3390/jpm12050826	2022	12	5	-	-	826	-
Grosman-Dziewiszek, Patrycja; Wiatrak, Benita; Dziewiszek, Wojciech; Jawień, Paulina; Mydlikowski, Remigiusz; Bolejko, Romuald; Szandruk-Bender, Marta; Karuga-Kuźniewska, Ewa; Szeląg, Adam	Influence of 40 Hz and 100 Hz Vibration on SH-SY5Y Cells Growth and Differentiation—A Preliminary Study	Molecules	EN	Article	vibration; low magnitude high-frequency vibration (LMHFV); cell differentiation; cell lines; neurons; SH-SY5Y cells	(1) Background: A novel bioreactor platform of neuronal cell cultures using low-magnitude, low-frequency (LMLF) vibrational stimulation was designed to discover vibration influence and mimic the dynamic environment of the in vivo state. To better understand the impact of 40 Hz and 100 Hz vibration on cell differentiation, we join biotechnology and advanced medical technology to design the nano-vibration system. The influence of vibration on the development of nervous tissue on the selected cell line SH-SY5Y (experimental research model in Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s) was investigated. (2) Methods: The vibration stimulation of cell differentiation and elongation of their neuritis were monitored. We measured how vibrations affect the morphology and differentiation of nerve cells in vitro. (3) Results: The highest average length of neurites was observed in response to the 40 Hz vibration on the collagen surface in the differentiating medium, but cells response did not increase with vibration frequency. Also, vibrations at a frequency of 40 Hz or 100 Hz did not affect the average density of neurites. 100 Hz vibration increased the neurites density significantly with time for cultures on collagen and non-collagen surfaces. The exposure of neuronal cells to 40 Hz and 100 Hz vibration enhanced cell differentiation. The 40 Hz vibration has the best impact on neuronal-like cell growth and differentiation. (4) Conclusions: The data demonstrated that exposure to neuronal cells to 40 Hz and 100 Hz vibration enhanced cell differentiation and proliferation. This positive impact of vibration can be used in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. It is planned to optimize the processes and study its molecular mechanisms concerning carrying out the research.	Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Wroclaw Medical University, Mikulicza-Radeckiego 2, 50-345 Wrocław, Poland	10.3390/molecules27103337	2022	27	10	-	-	3337	-
Zagorski, Karen; Chailyan, Gor; Hovakimyan, Armine; Antonyan, Tatevik; Kiani Shabestari, Sepideh; Petrushina, Irina; Davtyan, Hayk; Cribbs, David; Blurton-Jones, Mathew; Masliah, Eliezer; Agadjanyan, Michael; Ghochikyan, Anahit	Immunogenicity of MultiTEP-Platform-Based Recombinant Protein Vaccine, PV-1950R, Targeting Three B-Cell Antigenic Determinants of Pathological α-Synuclein	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Brief Report	Parkinson’s disease; Alzheimer’s disease; MultiTEP platform; DNA and protein MultiTEP-based vaccines; immunogenicity; anti-α-synuclein antibodies; α-synuclein pathology	Parkinson’s disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are characterized by the aberrant accumulation of intracytoplasmic misfolded and aggregated α-synuclein (α-Syn), resulting in neurodegeneration associated with inflammation. The propagation of α-Syn aggregates from cell to cell is implicated in the spreading of pathological α-Syn in the brain and disease progression. We and others demonstrated that antibodies generated after active and passive vaccinations could inhibit the propagation of pathological α-Syn in the extracellular space and prevent/inhibit disease/s in the relevant animal models. We recently tested the immunogenicity and efficacy of four DNA vaccines on the basis of the universal MultiTEP platform technology in the DLB/PD mouse model. The antibodies generated by these vaccines efficiently reduced/inhibited the accumulation of pathological α-Syn in the different brain regions and improved the motor deficit of immunized female mice. The most immunogenic and preclinically effective vaccine, PV-1950D, targeting three B-cell epitopes of pathological α-Syn simultaneously, has been selected for future IND-enabling studies. However, to ensure therapeutically potent concentrations of α-Syn antibodies in the periphery of the vaccinated elderly, we developed a recombinant protein-based MultiTEP vaccine, PV-1950R/A, and tested its immunogenicity in young and aged D-line mice. Antibody responses induced by immunizations with the PV-1950R/A vaccine and its homologous DNA counterpart, PV-1950D, in a mouse model of PD/DLB have been compared.	Department of Molecular Immunology, Institute for Molecular Medicine, Huntington Beach, CA 92647, USA	10.3390/ijms23116080	2022	23	11	-	-	6080	-
Ruggiero, Fabiana; Lombi, Linda; Molisso, Maria; Fiore, Giorgio; Zirone, Eleonora; Ferrucci, Roberta; Pirola, Elena; Locatelli, Marco; Barbieri, Sergio; Mameli, Francesca	The Impact of Telemedicine on Parkinson’s Care during the COVID-19 Pandemic: An Italian Online Survey	Healthcare	EN	Article	survey; Parkinson’s disease; COVID-19; telehealth; telemedicine; E-health; telerehabilitation	Traditionally, medical care and research in Parkinson’s disease (PD) have been conducted through in-person visit. The recent Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has profoundly impacted the delivery of in-person clinical care. We conducted an online survey to investigate the impact of COVID-19 on access to telehealth care, interviewing both PD patients and neurologists. Survey responses were collected from 1 March to 31 May 2021 through an anonymous, self-reported questionnaire, on the ‘Qualtrics’ platform. In total, 197 patients and 42 neurologists completed the survey. In our sample, 37.56% of PD patients and 88.10% of neurologists reported having used alternatives to in-person visits, while 13.70% of PD patients and 40.48% of neurologists used telemedicine. Data showed that respondents were generally satisfied with the use of telemedicine during the COVID-19 pandemic. The relational dimension between patient and neurologist seems to be the factor that most positively affected the telemedicine experience, contributing greatly to a more patient-centred care. Current findings suggest the need to improve the access to telehealth services for patients with PD. The technology has the potential to improve the care of frail patients, especially when availability of face-to-face visits is limited.	Foundation IRCCS Ca’ Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 20122 Milan, Italy	10.3390/healthcare10061065	2022	10	6	-	-	1065	-
Rahman, Mujeeb; Bilal, Muhammad; Shah, Junaid; Kaushik, Ajeet; Teissedre, Pierre-Louis; Kujawska, Małgorzata	CRISPR-Cas9-Based Technology and Its Relevance to Gene Editing in Parkinson’s Disease	Pharmaceutics	EN	Review	Parkinson’s; CRISPR-Cas9; gene therapy; delivery; applications	Parkinson’s disease (PD) and other chronic and debilitating neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) impose a substantial medical, emotional, and financial burden on individuals and society. The origin of PD is unknown due to a complex combination of hereditary and environmental risk factors. However, over the last several decades, a significant amount of available data from clinical and experimental studies has implicated neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, dysregulated protein degradation, and mitochondrial dysfunction as the primary causes of PD neurodegeneration. The new gene-editing techniques hold great promise for research and therapy of NDs, such as PD, for which there are currently no effective disease-modifying treatments. As a result, gene therapy may offer new treatment options, transforming our ability to treat this disease. We present a detailed overview of novel gene-editing delivery vehicles, which is essential for their successful implementation in both cutting-edge research and prospective therapeutics. Moreover, we review the most recent advancements in CRISPR-based applications and gene therapies for a better understanding of treating PD. We explore the benefits and drawbacks of using them for a range of gene-editing applications in the brain, emphasizing some fascinating possibilities.	Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Dojazd 30, 60-631 Poznan, Poland	10.3390/pharmaceutics14061252	2022	14	6	-	-	1252	-
Marquez Chavez, Jorge; Tang, Wei	A Vision-Based System for Stage Classification of Parkinsonian Gait Using Machine Learning and Synthetic Data	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; gait analysis; vision-based system	Parkinson’s disease is characterized by abnormal gait, which worsens as the condition progresses. Although several methods have been able to classify this feature through pose-estimation algorithms and machine-learning classifiers, few studies have been able to analyze its progression to perform stage classification of the disease. Moreover, despite the increasing popularity of these systems for gait analysis, the amount of available gait-related data can often be limited, thereby, hindering the progress of the implementation of this technology in the medical field. As such, creating a quantitative prognosis method that can identify the severity levels of a Parkinsonian gait with little data could help facilitate the study of the Parkinsonian gait for rehabilitation. In this contribution, we propose a vision-based system to analyze the Parkinsonian gait at various stages using linear interpolation of Parkinsonian gait models. We present a comparison between the performance of a k-nearest neighbors algorithm (KNN), support-vector machine (SVM) and gradient boosting (GB) algorithms in classifying well-established gait features. Our results show that the proposed system achieved 96–99% accuracy in evaluating the prognosis of Parkinsonian gaits.	Department of Physics, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM 88003, USA	10.3390/s22124463	2022	22	12	-	-	4463	-
Correno, Mathias; Hansen, Clint; Carlin, Thomas; Vuillerme, Nicolas	Objective Measurement of Walking Activity Using Wearable Technologies in People with Parkinson Disease: A Systematic Review	Sensors	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; walking activity; wearable devices; monitoring strategy; systematic review	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disease with a multitude of disease variations including motor and non-motor symptoms. Quality of life and symptom management may be improved with physical activity. Due to technological advancement, development of small new wearable devices recently emerged and allowed objective measurement of walking activity in daily life. This review was specifically designed to synthesize literature on objective walking activity measurements using wearable devices of patients with PD. Inclusion criteria included patients with a diagnosis of PD and exclusion criteria included studies using animal models or mixed syndromes. Participants were not required to undergo any type of intervention and the studies must have reported at least one output that quantifies daily walking activity. Three databases were systematically searched with no limitation on publication date. Twenty-six studies were eligible and included in the systematic review. The most frequently used device was the ActiGraph GT3X which was used in 10 studies. Duration of monitoring presented a range from 8 h to one year. Nevertheless, 11 studies measured walking activity during a 7-day period. On-body sensor wearing location differed throughout the included studies showing eight positions, with the waist, ankle, and wrist being the most frequently used locations. The main procedures consisted of measurement of walking hours during a 2-day period or more, equipped with a triaxial accelerometer at the dominant hip or ankle. It is also important for further research to take care of different factors such as the population, their pathology, the period, and the environment.	Laboratory AGEIS, Université Grenoble Alpes, 38000 Grenoble, France	10.3390/s22124551	2022	22	12	-	-	4551	-
Khwaounjoo, Prashanna; Singh, Gurleen; Grenfell, Sophie; Özsoy, Burak; MacAskill, Michael; Anderson, Tim; Çakmak, Yusuf	Non-Contact Hand Movement Analysis for Optimal Configuration of Smart Sensors to Capture Parkinson’s Disease Hand Tremor	Sensors	EN	Article	wearable sensors; postural tremor; smart devices; Parkinson’s disease; tremor detection	Parkinson’s disease affects millions worldwide with a large rise in expected burden over the coming decades. More easily accessible tools and techniques to diagnose and monitor Parkinson’s disease can improve the quality of life of patients. With the advent of new wearable technologies such as smart rings and watches, this is within reach. However, it is unclear what method for these new technologies may provide the best opportunity to capture the patient-specific severity. This study investigates which locations on the hand can be used to capture and monitor maximal movement/tremor severity. Using a Leap Motion device and custom-made software the volume, velocity, acceleration, and frequency of Parkinson’s (n = 55, all right-handed, majority right-sided onset) patients’ hand locations (25 joints inclusive of all fingers/thumb and the wrist) were captured simultaneously. Distal locations of the right hand, i.e., the ends of fingers and the wrist showed significant trends (p < 0.05) towards having the largest movement velocities and accelerations. The right hand, compared with the left hand, showed significantly greater volumes, velocities, and accelerations (p < 0.01). Supplementary analysis showed that the volumes, acceleration, and velocities had significant correlations (p < 0.001) with clinical MDS-UPDRS scores, indicating the potential suitability of using these metrics for monitoring disease progression. Maximal movements at the distal hand and wrist area indicate that these locations are best suited to capture hand tremor movements and monitor Parkinson’s disease.	Department of Anatomy, School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Otago, Dunedin 9016, New Zealand	10.3390/s22124613	2022	22	12	-	-	4613	-
Gauthier-Beaupré, Amélie; Poitras, Emely; Grosjean, Sylvie; Mestre, Tiago; on behalf of the iCARE-PD Consortium	Co-Designing an Integrated Care Network with People Living with Parkinson’s Disease: A Heterogeneous Social Network of People, Resources and Technologies	Journal of Personalized Medicine	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; integrated care network; co-design; actor-network theory; qualitative research; eHealth technologies; care partners; health care professionals	As part of the iCARE-PD project, a multinational and multidisciplinary research endeavour to address complex care in Parkinson’s disease, a Canadian case study focused on gaining a better understanding of people living with Parkinson’s disease (PwP) experiences with health and medical services, particularly their vision for a sustainable, tailored and integrated care delivery network. The multifaceted nature of the condition means that PwP must continuously adapt and adjust to every aspect of their lives, and progressively rely on support from care partners (CP) and various health care professionals (HCP). To envision the integrated care delivery network from the perspective of PwP, the study consisted of designing scenarios for an integrated care delivery network with patients, their CP and their HCP, as well as identifying key requirements for designing an integrated care delivery network. The results demonstrate that numerous networks interact, representing specific inscriptions, actors and mediators who meet at specific crossing points. This resulted in the creation of a roadmap and toolkit that takes into consideration the unique challenges faced by PwP, and the necessity for an integrated care delivery network that can be personalized and malleable so as to adapt to evolving and changing needs over time.	Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada	10.3390/jpm12061001	2022	12	6	-	-	1001	-
Schmitz-Luhn, Bjoern; Chandler, Jennifer; on behalf of the iCARE-PD Consortium	Ethical and Legal Aspects of Technology-Assisted Care in Neurodegenerative Disease	Journal of Personalized Medicine	EN	Article	ethics and law of medicine and technology; neurodegenerative diseases; technology-assisted care; liability; medical education	Technological solutions are increasingly seen as a way to respond to the demands of managing complex chronic conditions, especially neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson’s Disease. All of these new possibilities provide a variety of chances to improve the lives of affected persons and their families, friends, and caregivers. However, there are also a number of challenges that should be considered in order to safeguard the interests of affected persons. In this article, we discuss the ethical and legal considerations associated with the use of technology-assisted care in the context of neurodegenerative conditions.	Center for Life Ethics, Bonn University, 53113 Bonn, Germany	10.3390/jpm12061011	2022	12	6	-	-	1011	-
Byberi, Armanda; K. Amineh, Reza; Ravan, Maryam	Wearable Inductive Sensing of the Arm Joint: Comparison of Three Sensing Configurations	Magnetism	EN	Article	electromagnetics; inductive sensing; motion tracking; wearable sensing	Currently, there is a rapidly growing interest and demand for wearable textile sensors that can monitor human motions in a naturalistic environment. Some potential applications for this technology include research on measuring the motor skill performance of patients with motor disabilities such as autism spectrum disorder, Parkinson’s disease, cerebral palsy, and stroke and evaluating the efficacy of applied treatments. Among wearable sensors, inductive sensors that are made from highly conductive threads are attractive due to their easy development process, high reliability, and low cost. In this study, we analyzed and compared the performance of three inductive wearable sensor configurations—(1) single planar rectangular coil, (2) two separated coils connected in series, and (3) two helical coils connected in series—in terms of the change in the resonant frequency of the tank circuit they comprised as a result of the change in elbow joint angle through simulations. Three parameters of length, width, and the number of turns were considered to calculate sensor sensitivity to the joint angle. The coil with the highest sensitivity was then fabricated and measured, and its performance was compared with the simulation results. The proposed methodology can be extended to sensing other joints in the body such as the shoulders, fingers, and knees.	Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, New York Institute of Technology, New York, NY 10023, USA	10.3390/magnetism2030015	2022	2	3	-	-	15	-
Li, Amanda; Rastegar, Cyrus; Mao, Xiaobo	α-Synuclein Conformational Plasticity: Physiologic States, Pathologic Strains, and Biotechnological Applications	Biomolecules	EN	Review	α-synuclein; tetramer; α-synucleinopathy; prion-like; strains; PMCA; RT-QuIC	α-Synuclein (αS) is remarkable for both its extensive conformational plasticity and pathologic prion-like properties. Physiologically, αS may populate disordered monomeric, helically folded tetrameric, or membrane-bound oligomeric states. Pathologically, αS may assemble into toxic oligomers and subsequently fibrils, the prion-like transmission of which is implicated in a class of neurodegenerative disorders collectively termed α-synucleinopathies. Notably, αS does not adopt a single “amyloid fold”, but rather exists as structurally distinct amyloid-like conformations referred to as “strains”. The inoculation of animal models with different strains induces distinct pathologies, and emerging evidence suggests that the propagation of disease-specific strains underlies the differential pathologies observed in patients with different α-synucleinopathies. The characterization of αS strains has provided insight into the structural basis for the overlapping, yet distinct, symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, multiple system atrophy, and dementia with Lewy bodies. In this review, we first explore the physiological and pathological differences between conformational states of αS. We then discuss recent studies on the influence of micro-environmental factors on αS species formation, propagation, and the resultant pathological characteristics. Lastly, we review how an understanding of αS conformational properties has been translated to emerging strain amplification technologies, which have provided further insight into the role of specific strains in distinct α-synucleinopathies, and show promise for the early diagnosis of disease.	Neuroregeneration and Stem Cell Programs, Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA	10.3390/biom12070994	2022	12	7	-	-	994	-
Montemurro, Nicola; Aliaga, Nelida; Graff, Pablo; Escribano, Amanda; Lizana, Jafeth	New Targets and New Technologies in the Treatment of Parkinson’s Disease: A Narrative Review	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Commentary	Parkinson’s disease; deep brain stimulation; new targets; subthalamic nucleus; functional neuroanatomy; new technologies; neurosurgery	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease, whose main neuropathological finding is pars compacta degeneration due to the accumulation of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites, and subsequent dopamine depletion. This leads to an increase in the activity of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the internal globus pallidus (GPi). Understanding functional anatomy is the key to understanding and developing new targets and new technologies that could potentially improve motor and non-motor symptoms in PD. Currently, the classical targets are insufficient to improve the entire wide spectrum of symptoms in PD (especially non-dopaminergic ones) and none are free of the side effects which are not only associated with the procedure, but with the targets themselves. The objective of this narrative review is to show new targets in DBS surgery as well as new technologies that are under study and have shown promising results to date. The aim is to give an overview of these new targets, as well as their limitations, and describe the current studies in this research field in order to review ongoing research that will probably become effective and routine treatments for PD in the near future.	Department of Neurosurgery, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Pisana (AOUP), University of Pisa, 56100 Pisa, Italy	10.3390/ijerph19148799	2022	19	14	-	-	8799	-
Deb, Ranadeep; An, Sizhe; Bhat, Ganapati; Shill, Holly; Ogras, Umit	A Systematic Survey of Research Trends in Technology Usage for Parkinson’s Disease	Sensors	EN	Review	Parkinson’s disease; wearable devices; digital health; biopotential devices; diagnosis; prognosis; taxonomy	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurological disorder with complicated and disabling motor and non-motor symptoms. The complexity of PD pathology is amplified due to its dependency on patient diaries and the neurologist’s subjective assessment of clinical scales. A significant amount of recent research has explored new cost-effective and subjective assessment methods pertaining to PD symptoms to address this challenge. This article analyzes the application areas and use of mobile and wearable technology in PD research using the PRISMA methodology. Based on the published papers, we identify four significant fields of research: diagnosis, prognosis and monitoring, predicting response to treatment, and rehabilitation. Between January 2008 and December 2021, 31,718 articles were published in four databases: PubMed Central, Science Direct, IEEE Xplore, and MDPI. After removing unrelated articles, duplicate entries, non-English publications, and other articles that did not fulfill the selection criteria, we manually investigated 1559 articles in this review. Most of the articles (45%) were published during a recent four-year stretch (2018–2021), and 19% of the articles were published in 2021 alone. This trend reflects the research community’s growing interest in assessing PD with wearable devices, particularly in the last four years of the period under study. We conclude that there is a substantial and steady growth in the use of mobile technology in the PD contexts. We share our automated script and the detailed results with the public, making the review reproducible for future publications.	Analog Devices, Raleigh, NC 27603, USA	10.3390/s22155491	2022	22	15	-	-	5491	-
Spanakis, Marios; Xylouri, Ioanna; Patelarou, Evridiki; Patelarou, Athina	A Literature Review of High-Tech Physiotherapy Interventions in the Elderly with Neurological Disorders	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Review	physiotherapy; neurological disorders; cognitive aging; stroke; Parkinson’s disease; e-health; patient empowerment	Neurological physiotherapy adopts a problem-based approach for each patient as determined by a thorough evaluation of the patient’s physical and mental well-being. Τhis work aims to provide a literature review of physical therapy interventions in the elderly with neurological diseases (NDs) and discuss physiotherapy procedures and methods that utilize cutting-edge technologies for which clinical studies are available. Hence, the review focuses on acute NDs (stroke), deteriorating NDs (Parkinson’s disease), and age-related cognitive impairment. The most used physiotherapy procedures on which clinical data are available are balance and gait training (robot-assisted or not), occupational therapy, classical physiotherapy, walking and treadmill training, and upper limb robot-assisted therapy. Respectively, the most often-used equipment are types of treadmills, robotic-assisted equipment (Lokomat® and Gait Trainer GT1), and portable walkway systems (GAITRite®), along with state-of-the-art technologies of virtual reality, virtual assistants, and smartphones. The findings of this work summarize the core standard tools and procedures, but more importantly, provide a glimpse of the new era in physiotherapy with the utilization of innovative equipment tools for advanced patient monitoring and empowerment.	Department of Nursing, School of Health Sciences, Hellenic Mediterranean University, GR-71004 Heraklion, Crete, Greece	10.3390/ijerph19159233	2022	19	15	-	-	9233	-
Samotus, Olivia; Mahdi, Yekta; Jog, Mandar	Real-World Longitudinal Experience of Botulinum Toxin Therapy for Parkinson and Essential Tremor	Toxins	EN	Article	Botulinum toxin; upper-limb tremor; treatment; essential tremor; Parkinson’s disease	Background: Botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) therapy for upper-limb tremor has emerged as a promising option. However, it is unclear in real-world practices whether a technology-guided approach can compare with expert clinical assessments (including surface anatomy and palpation) for improving outcomes. This retrospective study aims to review our clinical outcomes of treating essential tremor (ET) and Parkinson’s disease (PD) tremor using either clinical- or kinematic-based injection pattern determination methods. Methods: 68 ET and 45 PD patients received at least one injection for their upper-limb tremor (unilateral or bilateral) in the last 7 years. Demographics of patients and BoNT-A injections were collected. A Mann–Whitney U statistical test was used to compare outcome measures between ET and PD cohorts. Results: Mean age (72 ± 9 years), number of injections (5), years receiving therapy (~2 years), clinic- (~57%) or kinematic-based patterns, and self-paying (52%) were similar between both cohorts. BoNT-A as a monotherapy in both upper limbs was received in more ET than PD patients. Double reconstitution of Xeomin® in the wrist flexors/extensors, supinator, biceps, and triceps were most injected. Discontinuation due to no benefit/weakness was not dependent on the injection pattern determination approach. Conclusions: Kinematic-based BoNT-A injections produced similar treatment outcomes to injections based on the clinical expertise of the expert injector. This suggests that kinematics could be used by a non-expert to attain equivalent efficacy potentially improving access to this treatment.	Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences, London Health Sciences Centre—Lawson Health Research Institute, 339 Windermere Road, A10-026, London, ON N6A 5A5, Canada	10.3390/toxins14080557	2022	14	8	-	-	557	-
Tesoro, Carmen; Lelario, Filomena; Ciriello, Rosanna; Bianco, Giuliana; Di Capua, Angela; Acquavia, Maria	An Overview of Methods for L-Dopa Extraction and Analytical Determination in Plant Matrices	Separations	EN	Review	levodopa; plant matrices; extraction; review; chromatographic methods	L-dopa is a precursor of dopamine used as the most effective symptomatic drug treatment for Parkinson’s disease. Most of the L-dopa isolated is either synthesized chemically or from natural sources, but only some plants belonging to the Fabaceae family contain significant amounts of L-dopa. Due to its low stability, the unambiguous determination of L-dopa in plant matrices requires appropriate technologies. Several analytical methods have been developed for the determination of L-dopa in different plants. The most used for quantification of L-dopa are mainly based on capillary electrophoresis or chromatographic methods, i.e., high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), coupled to ultraviolet-visible or mass spectrometric detection. HPLC is most often used. This paper aims to give information on the latest developments in the chemical study of L-dopa, emphasizing the extraction, separation and characterization of this compound by chromatographic, electrochemical and spectral techniques. This study can help select the best possible strategy for determining L-dopa in plant matrices using advanced analytical methods.	Dipartimento di Scienze, Università degli Studi della Basilicata, Via dell’Ateneo Lucano 10, 85100 Potenza, Italy	10.3390/separations9080224	2022	9	8	-	-	224	-
Raghunathan, Rekha; Turajane, Kathleen; Wong, Li	Biomarkers in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Proteomics Spotlight on ALS and Parkinson’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	biomarkers; neurodegeneration; ALS; PD; TDP43; proteomics; LC-MS/MS	Neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinson’s disease (PD) are both characterized by pathogenic protein aggregates that correlate with the progressive degeneration of neurons and the loss of behavioral functions. Both diseases lack biomarkers for diagnosis and treatment efficacy. Proteomics is an unbiased quantitative tool capable of the high throughput quantitation of thousands of proteins from minimal sample volumes. We review recent proteomic studies in human tissues, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and exosomes in ALS and PD that identify proteins with potential utility as biomarkers. Further, we review disease-related post-translational modifications in key proteins TDP43 in ALS and α-synuclein in PD studies, which may serve as biomarkers. We compare relative and absolute quantitative proteomic approaches in key biomarker studies in ALS and PD and discuss recent technological advancements which may identify suitable biomarkers for the early-diagnosis treatment efficacy of these diseases.	Bioanalytical and Biomarker, Prevail Therapeutics, a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company, New York, NY 10016, USA	10.3390/ijms23169299	2022	23	16	-	-	9299	-
Roberts, Bradley; Theunissen, Frances; Mastaglia, Francis; Akkari, P.; Flynn, Loren	Synucleinopathy in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: A Potential Avenue for Antisense Therapeutics?	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; motor neuron disease; alpha-synuclein; synucleinopathies; neurodegeneration	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most common adult-onset motor neuron disease classified as both a neurodegenerative and neuromuscular disorder. With a complex aetiology and no current cure for ALS, broadening the understanding of disease pathology and therapeutic avenues is required to progress with patient care. Alpha-synuclein (αSyn) is a hallmark for disease in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson’s disease, Lewy body dementia, and multiple system atrophy. A growing body of evidence now suggests that αSyn may also play a pathological role in ALS, with αSyn-positive Lewy bodies co-aggregating alongside known ALS pathogenic proteins, such as SOD1 and TDP-43. This review endeavours to capture the scope of literature regarding the aetiology and development of ALS and its commonalities with “synucleinopathy disorders”. We will discuss the involvement of αSyn in ALS and motor neuron disease pathology, and the current theories and strategies for therapeutics in ALS treatment, as well as those targeting αSyn for synucleinopathies, with a core focus on small molecule RNA technologies.	The Perron Institute for Neurological and Translational Science, Nedlands, WA 6009, Australia	10.3390/ijms23169364	2022	23	16	-	-	9364	-
Schmidhuber, Sabine; Scheiblhofer, Sandra; Weiss, Richard; Cserepes, Mihály; Tóvári, József; Gadermaier, Gabriele; Bezard, Erwan; De Giorgi, Francesca; Ichas, François; Strunk, Dirk; Mandler, Markus	A Novel C-Type Lectin Receptor-Targeted α-Synuclein-Based Parkinson Vaccine Induces Potent Immune Responses and Therapeutic Efficacy in Mice	Vaccines	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; vaccine; vaccination strategy; α-synuclein; public health; cost effectiveness	The progressive accumulation of misfolded α-synuclein (α-syn) in the brain is widely considered to be causal for the debilitating clinical manifestations of synucleinopathies including, most notably, Parkinson’s disease (PD). Immunotherapies, both active and passive, against α-syn have been developed and are promising novel treatment strategies for such disorders. To increase the potency and specificity of PD vaccination, we created the ‘Win the Skin Immune System Trick’ (WISIT) vaccine platform designed to target skin-resident dendritic cells, inducing superior B and T cell responses. Of the six tested WISIT candidates, all elicited higher immune responses compared to conventional, aluminum adjuvanted peptide-carrier conjugate PD vaccines, in BALB/c mice. WISIT-induced antibodies displayed higher selectivity for α-syn aggregates than those induced by conventional vaccines. Additionally, antibodies induced by two selected candidates were shown to inhibit α-syn aggregation in a dose-dependent manner in vitro. To determine if α-syn fibril formation could also be inhibited in vivo, WISIT candidate type 1 (CW-type 1) was tested in an established synucleinopathy seeding model and demonstrated reduced propagation of synucleinopathy in vivo. Our studies provide proof-of-concept for the efficacy of the WISIT vaccine technology platform and support further preclinical and clinical development of this vaccine candidate.	Tridem Bioscience GmbH &amp; CoKG, Campus Vienna Biocenter, Dr.-Bohrgasse 7, 1030 Vienna, Austria	10.3390/vaccines10091432	2022	10	9	-	-	1432	-
Muñoz, Daniela; Barria, Patricio; Cifuentes, Carlos; Aguilar, Rolando; Baleta, Karim; Azorín, José; Múnera, Marcela	EEG Evaluation in a Neuropsychological Intervention Program Based on Virtual Reality in Adults with Parkinson’s Disease	Biosensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; virtual reality; cognitive functions; electroencephalography	Nowadays, several strategies for treating neuropsychologic function loss in Parkinson’s disease (PD) have been proposed, such as physical activity performance and developing games to exercise the mind. However, few studies illustrate the incidence of these therapies in neuronal activity. This work aims to study the feasibility of a virtual reality-based program oriented to the cognitive functions’ rehabilitation of PD patients. For this, the study was divided into intervention with the program, acquisition of signals, data processing, and results analysis. The alpha and beta bands’ power behavior was determined by evaluating the electroencephalography (EEG) signals obtained during the execution of control tests and games of the “Hand Physics Lab” Software, from which five games related to attention, planning, and sequencing, concentration, and coordination were taken. Results showed the characteristic performance of the cerebral bands during resting states and activity states. In addition, it was determined that the beta band increased its activity in all the cerebral lobes in all the tested games (p-value < 0.05). On the contrary, just one game exhibited an adequate performance of the alpha band activity of the temporal and frontal lobes (p-value < 0.02). Furthermore, the visual attention and the capacity to process and interpret the information given by the surroundings was favored during the execution of trials (p-value < 0.05); thus, the efficacy of the virtual reality program to recover cognitive functions was verified. The study highlights implementing new technologies to rehabilitate people with neurodegenerative diseases.	Biomedical Engineering Department, Colombian School of Engineering Julio Garavito, Bogota 111166, Colombia	10.3390/bios12090751	2022	12	9	-	-	751	-
Schirinzi, Tommaso; Salvatori, Illari; Zenuni, Henri; Grillo, Piergiorgio; Valle, Cristiana; Martella, Giuseppina; Mercuri, Nicola; Ferri, Alberto	Pattern of Mitochondrial Respiration in Peripheral Blood Cells of Patients with Parkinson’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Communication	Parkinson’s disease; PBMCs; mitochondria; Seahorse; immunometabolic pathway; neuroinflammation; biomarkers; synaptopathy	Mitochondria are central in the pathogenesis of Parkinson’s disease (PD), as they are involved in oxidative stress, synaptopathy, and other immunometabolic pathways. Accordingly, they are emerging as a potential neuroprotection target, although further human-based evidence is needed for therapeutic advancements. This study aims to shape the pattern of mitochondrial respiration in the blood leukocytes of PD patients in relation to both clinical features and the profile of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers of neurodegeneration. Mitochondrial respirometry on the peripheral blood mononucleate cells (PBMCs) of 16 PD patients and 14 controls was conducted using Seahorse Bioscience technology. Bioenergetic parameters were correlated either with standard clinical scores for motor and non-motor disturbances or with CSF levels of α-synuclein, amyloid-β peptides, and tau proteins. In PD, PBMC mitochondrial basal respiration was normal; maximal and spare respiratory capacities were both increased; and ATP production was higher, although not significantly. Maximal and spare respiratory capacity was directly correlated with disease duration, MDS-UPDRS part III and Hoehn and Yahr motor scores; spare respiratory capacity was correlated with the CSF amyloid-β-42 to amyloid-β-42/40 ratio. We provided preliminary evidence showing that mitochondrial respiratory activity increases in the PBMCs of PD patients, probably following the compensatory adaptations to disease progression, in contrast to the bases of the neuropathological substrate.	Unit of Neurology, Department of Systems Medicine, Tor Vergata University of Rome, 00133 Rome, Italy	10.3390/ijms231810863	2022	23	18	-	-	10863	-
Hao, Zhiyuan; Ma, Jie; Sun, Wenjing	The Technology-Oriented Pathway for Auxiliary Diagnosis in the Digital Health Age: A Self-Adaptive Disease Prediction Model	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Article	machine learning; disease prediction model; auxiliary diagnosis; digital health; medical informatics	The advent of the digital age has accelerated the transformation and upgrading of the traditional medical diagnosis pattern. With the rise of the concept of digital health, the emerging information technologies, such as machine learning (ML) and data mining (DM), have been extensively applied in the medical and health field, where the construction of disease prediction models is an especially effective method to realize auxiliary medical diagnosis. However, the existing related studies mostly focus on the prediction analysis for a certain disease, using models with which it might be challenging to predict other diseases effectively. To address the issues existing in the aforementioned studies, this paper constructs four novel strategies to achieve a self-adaptive disease prediction process, i.e., the hunger-state foraging strategy of producers (PHFS), the parallel strategy for exploration and exploitation (EEPS), the perturbation–exploration strategy (PES), and the parameter self-adaptive strategy (PSAS), and eventually proposes a self-adaptive disease prediction model with applied universality, strong generalization ability, and strong robustness, i.e., multi-strategies optimization-based kernel extreme learning machine (MsO-KELM). Meanwhile, this paper selects six different real-world disease datasets as the experimental samples, which include the Breast Cancer dataset (cancer), the Parkinson dataset (Parkinson’s disease), the Autistic Spectrum Disorder Screening Data for Children dataset (Autism Spectrum Disorder), the Heart Disease dataset (heart disease), the Cleveland dataset (heart disease), and the Bupa dataset (liver disease). In terms of the prediction accuracy, the proposed MsO-KELM can obtain ACC values in analyzing these six diseases of 94.124%, 84.167%, 91.079%, 72.222%, 70.184%, and 70.476%, respectively. These ACC values have all been increased by nearly 2–7% compared with those obtained by the other models mentioned in this paper. This study deepens the connection between information technology and medical health by exploring the self-adaptive disease prediction model, which is an intuitive representation of digital health and could provide a scientific and reliable diagnostic basis for medical workers.	School of Business and Management, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, China	10.3390/ijerph191912509	2022	19	19	-	-	12509	-
Alouani, Ali; Elfouly, Tarek	Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) Detection: Past, Present, and Future	Biomedicines	EN	Review	traumatic brain injury; neuroimaging; electroencephalography; preprocessing; artifacts removal; detection; artificial intelligence	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can produce temporary biochemical imbalance due to leaks through cell membranes or disruption of the axoplasmic flow due to the misalignment of intracellular neurofilaments. If untreated, TBI can lead to Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, or total disability. Mild TBI (mTBI) accounts for about about 90 percent of all TBI cases. The detection of TBI as soon as it happens is crucial for successful treatment management. Neuroimaging-based tests provide only a structural and functional mapping of the brain with poor temporal resolution. Such tests may not detect mTBI. On the other hand, the electroencephalogram (EEG) provides good spatial resolution and excellent temporal resolution of the brain activities beside its portability and low cost. The objective of this paper is to provide clinicians and scientists with a one-stop source of information to quickly learn about the different technologies used for TBI detection, their advantages and limitations. Our research led us to conclude that even though EEG-based TBI detection is potentially a powerful technology, it is currently not able to detect the presence of a mTBI with high confidence. The focus of the paper is to review existing approaches and provide the reason for the unsuccessful state of EEG-based detection of mTBI.	Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, College of Engineering, Tennessee Technological University, Cookeville, TN 38505, USA	10.3390/biomedicines10102472	2022	10	10	-	-	2472	-
Meigal, Alexander; Gerasimova-Meigal, Liudmila; Reginya, Sergey; Soloviev, Alexey; Moschevikin, Alex	Gait Characteristics Analyzed with Smartphone IMU Sensors in Subjects with Parkinsonism under the Conditions of “Dry” Immersion	Sensors	EN	Article	inertial measurement unit; smartphone; accelerometry; TUG test; gait; Parkinson’s disease; “dry” immersion	Parkinson’s disease (PD) is increasingly being studied using science-intensive methods due to economic, medical, rehabilitation and social reasons. Wearable sensors and Internet of Things-enabled technologies look promising for monitoring motor activity and gait in PD patients. In this study, we sought to evaluate gait characteristics by analyzing the accelerometer signal received from a smartphone attached to the head during an extended TUG test, before and after single and repeated sessions of terrestrial microgravity modeled with the condition of “dry” immersion (DI) in five subjects with PD. The accelerometer signal from IMU during walking phases of the TUG test allowed for the recognition and characterization of up to 35 steps. In some patients with PD, unusually long steps have been identified, which could potentially have diagnostic value. It was found that after one DI session, stepping did not change, though in one subject it significantly improved (cadence, heel strike and step length). After a course of DI sessions, some characteristics of the TUG test improved significantly. In conclusion, the use of accelerometer signals received from a smartphone IMU looks promising for the creation of an IoT-enabled system to monitor gait in subjects with PD.	Medical Institute, Petrozavodsk State University, 33, Lenina pr., 185910 Petrozavodsk, Russia	10.3390/s22207915	2022	22	20	-	-	7915	-
Güney, Gökhan; Jansen, Talisa; Dill, Sebastian; Schulz, Jörg; Dafotakis, Manuel; Hoog Antink, Christoph; Braczynski, Anne	Video-Based Hand Movement Analysis of Parkinson Patients before and after Medication Using High-Frame-Rate Videos and MediaPipe	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; tremor; video-based analyses; mediapipe; artificial intelligence	Tremor is one of the common symptoms of Parkinson’s disease (PD). Thanks to the recent evolution of digital technologies, monitoring of PD patients’ hand movements employing contactless methods gained momentum. Objective: We aimed to quantitatively assess hand movements in patients suffering from PD using the artificial intelligence (AI)-based hand-tracking technologies of MediaPipe. Method: High-frame-rate videos and accelerometer data were recorded from 11 PD patients, two of whom showed classical Parkinsonian-type tremor. In the OFF-state and 30 Minutes after taking their standard oral medication (ON-state), video recordings were obtained. First, we investigated the frequency and amplitude relationship between the video and accelerometer data. Then, we focused on quantifying the effect of taking standard oral treatments. Results: The data extracted from the video correlated well with the accelerometer-based measurement system. Our video-based approach identified the tremor frequency with a small error rate (mean absolute error 0.229 (±0.174) Hz) and an amplitude with a high correlation. The frequency and amplitude of the hand movement before and after medication in PD patients undergoing medication differ. PD Patients experienced a decrease in the mean value for frequency from 2.012 (±1.385) Hz to 1.526 (±1.007) Hz and in the mean value for amplitude from 8.167 (±15.687) a.u. to 4.033 (±5.671) a.u. Conclusions: Our work achieved an automatic estimation of the movement frequency, including the tremor frequency with a low error rate, and to the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper that presents automated tremor analysis before/after medication in PD, in particular using high-frame-rate video data.	KIS*MED (AI Systems in Medicine), Technische Universität Darmstadt, Merckstraße 25, 64283 Darmstadt, Germany	10.3390/s22207992	2022	22	20	-	-	7992	-
Amprimo, Gianluca; Masi, Giulia; Priano, Lorenzo; Azzaro, Corrado; Galli, Federica; Pettiti, Giuseppe; Mauro, Alessandro; Ferraris, Claudia	Assessment Tasks and Virtual Exergames for Remote Monitoring of Parkinson’s Disease: An Integrated Approach Based on Azure Kinect	Sensors	EN	Article	Parkinson’s disease; neurorehabilitation; exergames; azure kinect; UPDRS; movement analysis; body tracking; telemedicine	Motor impairments are among the most relevant, evident, and disabling symptoms of Parkinson’s disease that adversely affect quality of life, resulting in limited autonomy, independence, and safety. Recent studies have demonstrated the benefits of physiotherapy and rehabilitation programs specifically targeted to the needs of Parkinsonian patients in supporting drug treatments and improving motor control and coordination. However, due to the expected increase in patients in the coming years, traditional rehabilitation pathways in healthcare facilities could become unsustainable. Consequently, new strategies are needed, in which technologies play a key role in enabling more frequent, comprehensive, and out-of-hospital follow-up. The paper proposes a vision-based solution using the new Azure Kinect DK sensor to implement an integrated approach for remote assessment, monitoring, and rehabilitation of Parkinsonian patients, exploiting non-invasive 3D tracking of body movements to objectively and automatically characterize both standard evaluative motor tasks and virtual exergames. An experimental test involving 20 parkinsonian subjects and 15 healthy controls was organized. Preliminary results show the system’s ability to quantify specific and statistically significant (p < 0.05) features of motor performance, easily monitor changes as the disease progresses over time, and at the same time permit the use of exergames in virtual reality both for training and as a support for motor condition assessment (for example, detecting an average reduction in arm swing asymmetry of about 14% after arm training). The main innovation relies precisely on the integration of evaluative and rehabilitative aspects, which could be used as a closed loop to design new protocols for remote management of patients tailored to their actual conditions.	Institute of Electronics, Computer and Telecommunication Engineering, National Research Council, Corso Duca degli Abruzzi 24, 10129 Torino, Italy	10.3390/s22218173	2022	22	21	-	-	8173	-
