AUTHOR	TITLE	JOURNAL	LANGUANGE	DOCTYPE	KEYWORDS	ABSTRACT	AFFILIATION	DOI	PUBYEAR	PUBVOL	PUBISSUE	FPAGE	LPAGE	ARTNUMBER	PAGENUM
Semyachkina-Glushkovskaya, Oxana; Fedosov, Ivan; Penzel, Thomas; Li, Dongyu; Yu, Tingting; Telnova, Valeria; Kaybeleva, Elmira; Saranceva, Elena; Terskov, Andrey; Khorovodov, Alexander; Blokhina, Inna; Kurths, Jürgen; Zhu, Dan	Brain Waste Removal System and Sleep: Photobiomodulation as an Innovative Strategy for Night Therapy of Brain Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	brain diseases; meningeal lymphatic vessels; photobiomodulation	Emerging evidence suggests that an important function of the sleeping brain is the removal of wastes and toxins from the central nervous system (CNS) due to the activation of the brain waste removal system (BWRS). The meningeal lymphatic vessels (MLVs) are an important part of the BWRS. A decrease in MLV function is associated with Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases, intracranial hemorrhages, brain tumors and trauma. Since the BWRS is activated during sleep, a new idea is now being actively discussed in the scientific community: night stimulation of the BWRS might be an innovative and promising strategy for neurorehabilitation medicine. This review highlights new trends in photobiomodulation of the BWRS/MLVs during deep sleep as a breakthrough technology for the effective removal of wastes and unnecessary compounds from the brain in order to increase the neuroprotection of the CNS as well as to prevent or delay various brain diseases.	Institute of Physics, Humboldt University, Newtonstrasse 15, 12489 Berlin, Germany	10.3390/ijms24043221	2023	24	4	-	-	3221	-
Domínguez-Fernández, Celtia; Egiguren-Ortiz, June; Razquin, Jone; Gómez-Galán, Margarita; De las Heras-García, Laura; Paredes-Rodríguez, Elena; Astigarraga, Egoitz; Miguélez, Cristina; Barreda-Gómez, Gabriel	Review of Technological Challenges in Personalised Medicine and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	biomarker; Parkinson’s disease; Alzheimer’s disease; imaging techniques; neuroinflammation; exosomes; beta-amyloid; reactive antibodies; alpha-synuclein	Neurodegenerative disorders are characterised by progressive neuron loss in specific brain areas. The most common are Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease; in both cases, diagnosis is based on clinical tests with limited capability to discriminate between similar neurodegenerative disorders and detect the early stages of the disease. It is common that by the time a patient is diagnosed with the disease, the level of neurodegeneration is already severe. Thus, it is critical to find new diagnostic methods that allow earlier and more accurate disease detection. This study reviews the methods available for the clinical diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases and potentially interesting new technologies. Neuroimaging techniques are the most widely used in clinical practice, and new techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) have significantly improved the diagnosis quality. Identifying biomarkers in peripheral samples such as blood or cerebrospinal fluid is a major focus of the current research on neurodegenerative diseases. The discovery of good markers could allow preventive screening to identify early or asymptomatic stages of the neurodegenerative process. These methods, in combination with artificial intelligence, could contribute to the generation of predictive models that will help clinicians in the early diagnosis, stratification, and prognostic assessment of patients, leading to improvements in patient treatment and quality of life.	Research and Development Division, IMG Pharma Biotech, 48160 Derio, Spain	10.3390/ijms24043321	2023	24	4	-	-	3321	-
Palimariciuc, Matei; Balmus, Ioana-Miruna; Gireadă, Bogdan; Ciobica, Alin; Chiriță, Roxana; Iordache, Alin-Constantin; Apostu, Mihai; Dobrin, Romeo	The Quest for Neurodegenerative Disease Treatment—Focusing on Alzheimer’s Disease Personalised Diets	Current Issues in Molecular Biology	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; dementia; nutritional psychiatry; neuroprotection; oxidative stress; Mediterranean diet; selenium; Ginkgo biloba; Panax ginseng; Curcuma longa	Dementia represents a clinical syndrome characterised by progressive decline in memory, language, visuospatial and executive function, personality, and behaviour, causing loss of abilities to perform instrumental or essential activities of daily living. The most common cause of dementia is Alzheimer’s disease (AD), which accounts for up to 80% of all dementia cases. Despite that extensive studies regarding the etiology and risk factors have been performed in recent decades, and how the current knowledge about AD pathophysiology significantly improved with the recent advances in science and technology, little is still known about its treatment options. In this controverted context, a nutritional approach could be a promising way to formulate improved AD management strategies and to further analyse possible treatment strategy options based on personalised diets, as Nutritional Psychiatry is currently gaining relevance in neuropsychiatric disease treatment. Based on the current knowledge of AD pathophysiology, as well as based on the repeatedly documented anti-inflammatory and antioxidant potential of different functional foods, we aimed to find, describe, and correlate several dietary compounds that could be useful in formulating a nutritional approach in AD management. We performed a screening for relevant studies on the main scientific databases using keywords such as “Alzheimer’s disease”, “dementia”, “treatment”, “medication”, “treatment alternatives”, “vitamin E”, “nutrition”, “selenium”, “Ginkgo biloba”, “antioxidants”, “medicinal plants”, and “traditional medicine” in combinations. Results: nutrients could be a key component in the physiologic and anatomic development of the brain. Several nutrients have been studied in the pursuit of the mechanism triggered by the pathology of AD: vitamin D, fatty acids, selenium, as well as neuroprotective plant extracts (i.e., Ginkgo biloba, Panax ginseng, Curcuma longa), suggesting that the nutritional patterns could modulate the cognitive status and provide neuroprotection. The multifactorial origin of AD development and progression could suggest that nutrition could greatly contribute to the complex pathological picture. The identification of adequate nutritional interventions and the not yet fully understood nutrient activity in AD could be the next steps in finding several innovative treatment options for neurodegenerative disorders.	Department of Medicine III, Faculty of Medicine, Grigore T. Popa University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Iasi, 16 Universității Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania	10.3390/cimb45020098	2023	45	2	-	-	98	-
Paplomatas, Petros; Krokidis, Marios; Vlamos, Panagiotis; Vrahatis, Aristidis	An Ensemble Feature Selection Approach for Analysis and Modeling of Transcriptome Data in Alzheimer’s Disease	Applied Sciences	EN	Article	ensemble method; big data; dimensionality reduction; feature selection; Alzheimer’s disease	Data-driven analysis and characterization of molecular phenotypes comprises an efficient way to decipher complex disease mechanisms. Using emerging next generation sequencing technologies, important disease-relevant outcomes are extracted, offering the potential for precision diagnosis and therapeutics in progressive disorders. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) allows the inherent heterogeneity between individual cellular environments to be exploited and provides one of the most promising platforms for quantifying cell-to-cell gene expression variability. However, the high-dimensional nature of scRNA-seq data poses a significant challenge for downstream analysis, particularly in identifying genes that are dominant across cell populations. Feature selection is a crucial step in scRNA-seq data analysis, reducing the dimensionality of data and facilitating the identification of genes most relevant to the biological question. Herein, we present a need for an ensemble feature selection methodology for scRNA-seq data, specifically in the context of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). We combined various feature selection strategies to obtain the most dominant differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in an AD scRNA-seq dataset, providing a promising approach to identify potential transcriptome biomarkers through scRNA-seq data analysis, which can be applied to other diseases. We anticipate that feature selection techniques, such as our ensemble methodology, will dominate analysis options for transcriptome data, especially as datasets increase in volume and complexity, leading to more accurate classification and the generation of differentially significant features.	Bioinformatics and Human Electrophysiology Laboratory, Department of Informatics, Ionian University, 49100 Corfu, Greece	10.3390/app13042353	2023	13	4	-	-	2353	-
Andrade-Guerrero, Jesús; Santiago-Balmaseda, Alberto; Jeronimo-Aguilar, Paola; Vargas-Rodríguez, Isaac; Cadena-Suárez, Ana; Sánchez-Garibay, Carlos; Pozo-Molina, Glustein; Méndez-Catalá, Claudia; Cardenas-Aguayo, Maria-del-Carmen; Diaz-Cintra, Sofía; Pacheco-Herrero, Mar; Luna-Muñoz, José; Soto-Rojas, Luis	Alzheimer’s Disease: An Updated Overview of Its Genetics	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; genetics; GWAS; loci; molecular mechanisms; neurodegeneration; neuropathology	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease in the world. It is classified as familial and sporadic. The dominant familial or autosomal presentation represents 1–5% of the total number of cases. It is categorized as early onset (EOAD; <65 years of age) and presents genetic mutations in presenilin 1 (PSEN1), presenilin 2 (PSEN2), or the Amyloid precursor protein (APP). Sporadic AD represents 95% of the cases and is categorized as late-onset (LOAD), occurring in patients older than 65 years of age. Several risk factors have been identified in sporadic AD; aging is the main one. Nonetheless, multiple genes have been associated with the different neuropathological events involved in LOAD, such as the pathological processing of Amyloid beta (Aβ) peptide and Tau protein, as well as synaptic and mitochondrial dysfunctions, neurovascular alterations, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation, among others. Interestingly, using genome-wide association study (GWAS) technology, many polymorphisms associated with LOAD have been identified. This review aims to analyze the new genetic findings that are closely related to the pathophysiology of AD. Likewise, it analyzes the multiple mutations identified to date through GWAS that are associated with a high or low risk of developing this neurodegeneration. Understanding genetic variability will allow for the identification of early biomarkers and opportune therapeutic targets for AD.	Laboratorio de Patogénesis Molecular, Laboratorio 4, Edificio A4, Carrera Médico Cirujano, Facultad de Estudios Superiores Iztacala, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Tlalnepantla 54090, Edomex, Mexico	10.3390/ijms24043754	2023	24	4	-	-	3754	-
Bravo-Vázquez, Luis; Mora-Hernández, Erick; Rodríguez, Alma; Sahare, Padmavati; Bandyopadhyay, Anindya; Duttaroy, Asim; Paul, Sujay	Current Advances of Plant-Based Vaccines for Neurodegenerative Diseases	Pharmaceutics	EN	Review	neurodegenerative disorders; plant-based vaccines; immunotherapy; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; molecular farming; novel therapeutic strategies	Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are characterized by the progressive degeneration and/or loss of neurons belonging to the central nervous system, and represent one of the major global health issues. Therefore, a number of immunotherapeutic approaches targeting the non-functional or toxic proteins that induce neurodegeneration in NDDs have been designed in the last decades. In this context, due to unprecedented advances in genetic engineering techniques and molecular farming technology, pioneering plant-based immunogenic antigen expression systems have been developed aiming to offer reliable alternatives to deal with important NDDs, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, and multiple sclerosis. Diverse reports have evidenced that plant-made vaccines trigger significant immune responses in model animals, supported by the production of antibodies against the aberrant proteins expressed in the aforementioned NDDs. Moreover, these immunogenic tools have various advantages that make them a viable alternative for preventing and treating NDDs, such as high scalability, no risk of contamination with human pathogens, cold chain free production, and lower production costs. Hence, this article presents an overview of the current progress on plant-manufactured vaccines for NDDs and discusses its future prospects.	School of Engineering and Sciences, Campus Querétaro, Tecnologico de Monterrey, Av. Epigmenio González, No. 500 Fracc. San Pablo, Querétaro 76130, Mexico	10.3390/pharmaceutics15020711	2023	15	2	-	-	711	-
Nazarenko, Maria; Sleptcov, Aleksei; Zarubin, Aleksei; Salakhov, Ramil; Shevchenko, Alexander; Tmoyan, Narek; Elisaphenko, Eugeny; Zubkova, Ekaterina; Zheltysheva, Nina; Ezhov, Marat; Kukharchuk, Valery; Parfyonova, Yelena; Zakian, Suren; Zakharova, Irina	Calling and Phasing of Single-Nucleotide and Structural Variants of the LDLR Gene Using Oxford Nanopore MinION	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	LDLR; Oxford Nanopore; familial hypercholesterolemia; structural variant; haplotype	The LDLR locus has clinical significance for lipid metabolism, Mendelian familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), and common lipid metabolism-related diseases (coronary artery disease and Alzheimer’s disease), but its intronic and structural variants are underinvestigated. The aim of this study was to design and validate a method for nearly complete sequencing of the LDLR gene using long-read Oxford Nanopore sequencing technology (ONT). Five PCR amplicons from LDLR of three patients with compound heterozygous FH were analyzed. We used standard workflows of EPI2ME Labs for variant calling. All rare missense and small deletion variants detected previously by massively parallel sequencing and Sanger sequencing were identified using ONT. One patient had a 6976 bp deletion (exons 15 and 16) that was detected by ONT with precisely located breakpoints between AluY and AluSx1. Trans-heterozygous associations between mutation c.530C>T and c.1054T>C, c.2141-966_2390-330del, and c.1327T>C, and between mutations c.1246C>T and c.940+3_940+6del of LDLR, were confirmed. We demonstrated the ability of ONT to phase variants, thereby enabling haplotype assignment for LDLR with personalized resolution. The ONT-based method was able to detect exonic variants with the additional benefit of intronic analysis in one run. This method can serve as an efficient and cost-effective tool for diagnosing FH and conducting research on extended LDLR haplotype reconstruction.	Research Institute of Medical Genetics, Tomsk National Research Medical Center, Russian Academy of Sciences, Tomsk 634050, Russia	10.3390/ijms24054471	2023	24	5	-	-	4471	-
Le Reun, Eymeric; Foray, Nicolas	Low-Dose Radiation Therapy (LDRT) against Cancer and Inflammatory or Degenerative Diseases: Three Parallel Stories with a Common Molecular Mechanism Involving the Nucleoshuttling of the ATM Protein?	Cancers	EN	Review	low-dose; radiation therapy; LDRT; radiosensitivity; cancer; inflammation; Alzheimer’s disease; HRS; hormesis; adaptive response; ATM protein	Very early after their discovery, X-rays were used in multiple medical applications, such as treatments against cancer, inflammation and pain. Because of technological constraints, such applications involved X-ray doses lower than 1 Gy per session. Progressively, notably in oncology, the dose per session increased. However, the approach of delivering less than 1 Gy per session, now called low-dose radiation therapy (LDRT), was preserved and is still applied in very specific cases. More recently, LDRT has also been applied in some trials to protect against lung inflammation after COVID-19 infection or to treat degenerative syndromes such as Alzheimer’s disease. LDRT illustrates well the discontinuity of the dose-response curve and the counterintuitive observation that a low dose may produce a biological effect higher than a certain higher dose. Even if further investigations are needed to document and optimize LDRT, the apparent paradox of some radiobiological effects specific to low dose may be explained by the same mechanistic model based on the radiation-induced nucleoshuttling of the ATM kinase, a protein involved in various stress response pathways.	Inserm, U1296 Unit, “Radiation: Defense, Health and Environment”, Centre Léon-Bérard, 28 rue Laennec, 69008 Lyon, France	10.3390/cancers15051482	2023	15	5	-	-	1482	-
AlShboul, Rabah; Thabtah, Fadi; Walter Scott, Alexander; Wang, Yun	The Application of Intelligent Data Models for Dementia Classification	Applied Sciences	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; Clinical Dementia Rating; data analytics; neuropsychological assessment; neuroimaging; machine learning; feature section	Background and Objective: Dementia is a broad term for a complex range of conditions that affect the brain, such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Dementia affects a lot of people in the elderly community, hence there is a huge demand to better understand this condition by using cost effective and quick methods, such as neuropsychological tests, since pathological assessments are invasive and demand expensive resources. One of the promising initiatives that deals with dementia and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), which includes cognitive tests, such as Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scores. The aim of this research is to investigate non-invasive dementia indicators, such as cognitive features, that are typically diagnosed by clinical assessment within ADNI’s data to understand their effect on dementia. Methods: To achieve the aim, machine learning techniques have been utilized to classify patients into Cognitively Normal (CN), MCI, or having dementia, based on the sum of CDR scores (CDR-SB) besides demographic variables. Particularly, the performance of Support Vector Machine (SVM), K-nearest neighbors (KNN), Decision Trees (C4.5), Probabilistic Naïve Bayes (NB), and Rule Induction (RIPPER) is measured with respect to different evaluation measures, including specificity, sensitivity, and harmonic mean (F-measure), among others, on a large number of cases and controls from the ADNI dataset. Results: The results indicate competitive performance when classifying subjects from the baseline selected variables using machine learning technology. Though we observed fairly good results across all machine learning algorithms utilized, there was still variation in the performance ability, indicating that some algorithms, such as NB and C4.5, are better suited to the task of classifying dementia status based on our baseline data. Conclusions: Using cognitive tests, such as CDR-SB scores, with demographic attributes to pinpoint to dementia using machine learning can be seen a less invasive approach that could be good for clinical use to aid in the diagnosis of dementia. This study gives an indication that a comprehensive assessment tool, such as CDR, may be adequate in assessing and assigning a dementia class to patients, upon their visit, in order to speed further clinical procedures.	Computer Science Department, Prince Hussein Bin Abdullah College for Information Technology, Al Al-Bayt University, Mafraq 25113, Jordan	10.3390/app13063612	2023	13	6	-	-	3612	-
Ringgit, Gilbert; Siddiquee, Shafiquzzaman; Saallah, Suryani; Mohamad Lal, Mohammad	Nanomaterial Sensing Advantages: Electrochemical Behavior, Optimization and Performance of f-MWCNTs/CS/PB/AuE towards Aluminum Ions (Al3+) in Drinking Water	Crystals	EN	Article	aluminum ions; functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotubes; chitosan; Prussian blue; drinking water	Modern technology has been evolving towards nanotechnology due to the materials that can be transformed and manipulated on micro and nanoscales. In terms of detection, nanomaterials offer substantial sensing advantages, particularly in terms of enhanced sensitivity, synergistic effect, stability and selectivity. The immobilization of nanoparticles could alter the physicochemical properties of the electrode’s surface depending on the type of materials synthesized and employed. This research examined the synthesis of multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) and chitosan (CS), as well as the immobilization of Prussian blue (PB) on the surface of a bare gold electrode (AuE). These materials have been reported to have strong electrical conductivity and nanomaterial compatibility. In contrast, aluminum has been described as a replacement for traditional water quality treatment processes, such as chlorination and ozonation. Aluminum concentrations must be monitored despite the use of chemical treatment for water quality. Hence, excessive levels of exposure frequently result in neurotoxic effects including Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disorders. In this experiment, the optimal conditions for f-MWCNTs, CS, PB, and AuE for the detection of Al3+ are phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) (0.1 M, pH 2) with 5 mM Prussian Blue; scan rate = 0.25 Vs−1; accumulation duration = 25 s; and volume = 10 mL (ratio of 4:6). The performance of f-MWCNTs, CS, PB, and AuE was measured between 0.2 and 1 ppm with a correlation coefficient of R2 = 0.9853 (y = 0.0387x + 0.0748). The limit of detection (LOD) of the modified electrode was determined to be 0.002 ppm, with a recovery of 98.66–99.56%. The application of nanoparticles resulted in various advantages, including high conductivity, a simple, less time-consuming preparation technique, and enhanced sensitivity and stability for detecting the lowest concentration of Al3+ in drinking water.	Biotechnology Research Institute, Universiti Malaysia Sabah, Kota Kinabalu 88400, Sabah, Malaysia	10.3390/cryst13030497	2023	13	3	-	-	497	-
Chehimi, Samar; Crist, Richard; Reiner, Benjamin	Unraveling Psychiatric Disorders through Neural Single-Cell Transcriptomics Approaches	Genes	EN	Review	single-nuclei RNA-seq; transcriptome; psychiatric disorders; cellular characterization	The development of single-cell and single-nucleus transcriptome technologies is enabling the unraveling of the molecular and cellular heterogeneity of psychiatric disorders. The complexity of the brain and the relationships between different brain regions can be better understood through the classification of individual cell populations based on their molecular markers and transcriptomic features. Analysis of these unique cell types can explain their involvement in the pathology of psychiatric disorders. Recent studies in both human and animal models have emphasized the importance of transcriptome analysis of neuronal cells in psychiatric disorders but also revealed critical roles for non-neuronal cells, such as oligodendrocytes and microglia. In this review, we update current findings on the brain transcriptome and explore molecular studies addressing transcriptomic alterations identified in human and animal models in depression and stress, neurodegenerative disorders (Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease), schizophrenia, opioid use disorder, and alcohol and psychostimulant abuse. We also comment on potential future directions in single-cell and single-nucleus studies.	Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA	10.3390/genes14030771	2023	14	3	-	-	771	-
Sequeira-Antunes, Beatriz; Ferreira, Hugo	Urinary Biomarkers and Point-of-Care Urinalysis Devices for Early Diagnosis and Management of Disease: A Review	Biomedicines	EN	Review	urine metabolites; biomarkers; biosensing; microfluidics; urinalysis; continuous monitoring; noninvasive health monitoring	Biosensing and microfluidics technologies are transforming diagnostic medicine by accurately detecting biomolecules in biological samples. Urine is a promising biological fluid for diagnostics due to its noninvasive collection and wide range of diagnostic biomarkers. Point-of-care urinalysis, which integrates biosensing and microfluidics, has the potential to bring affordable and rapid diagnostics into the home to continuing monitoring, but challenges still remain. As such, this review aims to provide an overview of biomarkers that are or could be used to diagnose and monitor diseases, including cancer, cardiovascular diseases, kidney diseases, and neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer’s disease. Additionally, the different materials and techniques for the fabrication of microfluidic structures along with the biosensing technologies often used to detect and quantify biological molecules and organisms are reviewed. Ultimately, this review discusses the current state of point-of-care urinalysis devices and highlights the potential of these technologies to improve patient outcomes. Traditional point-of-care urinalysis devices require the manual collection of urine, which may be unpleasant, cumbersome, or prone to errors. To overcome this issue, the toilet itself can be used as an alternative specimen collection and urinalysis device. This review then presents several smart toilet systems and incorporated sanitary devices for this purpose.	Institute of Biophysics and Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Sciences, University of Lisbon, Campo Grande, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal	10.3390/biomedicines11041051	2023	11	4	-	-	1051	-
Arruda, Henrique; Borsoi, Felipe; Andrade, Amanda; Pastore, Glaucia; Marostica Junior, Mario	Scientific Advances in the Last Decade on the Recovery, Characterization, and Functionality of Bioactive Compounds from the Araticum Fruit (Annona crassiflora Mart.)	Plants	EN	Review	marolo; Cerrado fruit; health benefits; biological activities; antioxidant; anti-inflammatory; phytochemical composition; phenolic compounds; alkaloids; annonaceous acetogenins	Araticum (Annona crassiflora Mart.) is a native and endemic species to Brazilian Cerrado whose fruits have high sensorial, nutritional, bioactive, and economic potential. Its use in local folk medicine, associated with recent scientific findings, has attracted growing interest from different industrial sectors. Therefore, understanding the scientific advances achieved so far and identifying gaps to be filled is essential to direct future studies and transform accumulated knowledge into innovative technologies and products. In this review, we summarize the phytochemical composition, bioactivities, and food products from araticum fruit that have been reported in the scientific literature over the past 10 years. The compiled data showed that araticum fruit parts contain a wide range of bioactive compounds, particularly phenolic compounds, alkaloids, annonaceous acetogenins, carotenoids, phytosterols, and tocols. These phytochemicals contribute to different biological activities verified in araticum fruit extracts/fractions, including antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-Alzheimer, anticancer, antidiabetic, anti-obesity, antidyslipidemic, antinociceptive, hepatoprotective, healing of the cutaneous wound, antibacterial, and insecticide effects. Despite the promising findings, further studies—particularly toxicological (especially, with byproducts), pre-clinical, and clinical trials—must be conducted to confirm these biological effects in humans and assure the safety and well-being of consumers.	Bioflavors and Bioactive Compounds Laboratory, Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Faculty of Food Engineering, University of Campinas, Campinas 13083-862, SP, Brazil	10.3390/plants12071536	2023	12	7	-	-	1536	-
Terron, Heather; Maranan, Derek; Burgard, Luke; LaFerla, Frank; Lane, Shelley; Leissring, Malcolm	A Dual-Function “TRE-Lox” System for Genetic Deletion or Reversible, Titratable, and Near-Complete Downregulation of Cathepsin D	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	Alzheimer disease; cathepsin D; Cre-Lox technology; CRISPR; gene regulation; tetracycline regulatory element	Commonly employed methods for reversibly disrupting gene expression, such as those based on RNAi or CRISPRi, are rarely capable of achieving >80–90% downregulation, making them unsuitable for targeting genes that require more complete disruption to elicit a phenotype. Genetic deletion, on the other hand, while enabling complete disruption of target genes, often produces undesirable irreversible consequences such as cytotoxicity or cell death. Here we describe the design, development, and detailed characterization of a dual-function “TRE-Lox” system for effecting either (a) doxycycline (Dox)-mediated downregulation or (b) genetic deletion of a target gene—the lysosomal aspartyl protease cathepsin D (CatD)—based on targeted insertion of a tetracycline-response element (TRE) and two LoxP sites into the 5′ end of the endogenous CatD gene (CTSD). Using an optimized reverse-tetracycline transrepressor (rtTR) variant fused with the Krüppel-associated box (KRAB) domain, we show that CatD expression can be disrupted by as much as 98% in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). This system is highly sensitive to Dox (IC50 = 1.46 ng/mL) and results in rapid (t1/2 = 0.57 d) and titratable downregulation of CatD. Notably, even near-total disruption of CatD expression was completely reversed by withdrawal of Dox. As expected, transient expression of Cre recombinase results in complete deletion of the CTSD gene. The dual functionality of this novel system will facilitate future studies of the involvement of CatD in various diseases, particularly those attributable to partial loss of CatD function. In addition, the TRE-Lox approach should be applicable to the regulation of other target genes requiring more complete disruption than can be achieved by traditional methods.	Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA	10.3390/ijms24076745	2023	24	7	-	-	6745	-
Payne, Ashley; Taka, Equar; Adinew, Getinet; Soliman, Karam	Molecular Mechanisms of the Anti-Inflammatory Effects of Epigallocatechin 3-Gallate (EGCG) in LPS-Activated BV-2 Microglia Cells	Brain Sciences	EN	Article	chronic neuroinflammation; BV-2 microglial cells; aging; EGCG; lipopolysaccharide (LPS); pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines; neuroprotection	Chronic neuroinflammation is associated with many neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer’s. Microglia are the brain’s primary immune cells, and when activated, they release various proinflammatory cytokines. Several natural compounds with anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties, such as epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG), may provide a promising strategy for inflammation-related neurodegenerative diseases involving activated microglia cells. The objective of the current study was to examine the molecular targets underlying the anti-inflammatory effects of EGCG in activated microglia cells. BV-2 microglia cells were grown, stimulated, and treated with EGCG. Cytotoxicity and nitric oxide (NO) production were evaluated. Immunoassay, PCR array, and WES™ Technology were utilized to evaluate inflammatory, neuroprotective modulators as well as signaling pathways involved in the mechanistic action of neuroinflammation. Our findings showed that EGCG significantly inhibited proinflammatory mediator NO production in LPS-stimulated BV-2 microglia cells. In addition, ELISA analysis revealed that EGCG significantly decreases the release of proinflammatory cytokine IL-6 while it increases the release of TNF-α. PCR array analysis showed that EGCG downregulated MIF, CCL-2, and CSF2. It also upregulated IL-3, IL-11, and TNFS10. Furthermore, the analysis of inflammatory signaling pathways showed that EGCG significantly downregulated mRNA expression of mTOR, NF-κB2, STAT1, Akt3, CCL5, and SMAD3 while significantly upregulating the expression of mRNA of Ins2, Pld2, A20/TNFAIP3, and GAB1. Additionally, EGCG reduced the relative protein expression of NF-κB2, mTOR, and Akt3. These findings suggest that EGCG may be used for its anti-inflammatory effects to prevent neurodegenerative diseases.	Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Institute of Public Health (COPPS, IPH), Florida A&amp;M University, Tallahassee, FL 32307, USA	10.3390/brainsci13040632	2023	13	4	-	-	632	-
Basilicata, Michele; Grillo, Piergiorgio; Tancredi, Alvise; Di Fiore, Adolfo; Bollero, Patrizio; Stefani, Alessandro; Schirinzi, Tommaso	Oral Health and Use of Novel Transbuccal Drug Delivery Systems in Patients with Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s Disease: A Review	Applied Sciences	EN	Review	periodontal health; special care dentistry; new technology in dentistry; transbuccal drug delivery systems; oral diseases; neurodegenerative diseases; Parkinson’s disease; Alzheimer’s disease	Neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and Parkinson’s disease (PD), are common age-related diseases responsible for high disability. Disease-modifying treatments for AD and PD are still lacking, but symptomatic therapies are available, although limited by difficult administration and patients’ scarce compliance at later disease stages. Transbuccal Drug Delivery Systems (TDDSs) include chemical-physics biotechnologies and mechatronic approaches, allowing drug delivery via the transbuccal route, a strategy that may theoretically overcome the limitations imposed by conventional oral administration. In this review, we provided a snapshot of TDDSs, their mechanism of action, the existing subtypes, and their potential application in PD and AD patients. We found a variety of TDDSs, including tablets, solutions, sprays, patches, and the more sophisticated “mechatronic” IntelliDrug and OraFuse devices using a system of pumps and valves for continuous drug release. Several trials have been conducted either on models or patients to test the safety and efficacy of the antidementia and antiparkinsonian agents delivered by TDDSs, which produced encouraging results that suggest future application on a larger scale. Moreover, oral health has emerged as a fundamental prerequisite for the successful use of TDDSs. Accordingly, greater attention to oral hygiene is now due in patients with neurodegenerative disease.	UOSD Special Care Dentistry, Department of Experimental Medicine and Surgery, University of Roma Tor Vergata, 00133 Rome, Italy	10.3390/app13084974	2023	13	8	-	-	4974	-
Zabala-Findlay, Alex; Penny, Lewis; Lofthouse, Richard; Porter, Andrew; Palliyil, Soumya; Harrington, Charles; Wischik, Claude; Arastoo, Mohammad	Utility of Blood-Based Tau Biomarkers for Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer’s Disease: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis	Cells	EN	Systematic Review	Alzheimer’s disease; mild cognitive impairment; tau; biomarkers; diagnostics; blood	Objectives: With the development of new technologies capable of detecting low concentrations of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) relevant biomarkers, the idea of a blood-based diagnosis of AD is nearing reality. This study aims to consider the evidence of total and phosphorylated tau as blood-based biomarkers for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD when compared to healthy controls. Methods: Studies published between 1 January 2012 and 1 May 2021 (Embase and MEDLINE databases) measuring plasma/serum levels of tau in AD, MCI, and control cohorts were screened for eligibility, including quality and bias assessment via a modified QUADAS. The meta-analyses comprised 48 studies assessing total tau (t-tau), tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 (p-tau181), and tau phosphorylated at threonine 217 (p-tau217), comparing the ratio of biomarker concentrations in MCI, AD, and cognitively unimpaired (CU) controls. Results: Plasma/serum p-tau181 (mean effect size, 95% CI, 2.02 (1.76–2.27)) and t-tau (mean effect size, 95% CI, 1.77 (1.49–2.04)) were elevated in AD study participants compared to controls. Plasma/serum p-tau181 (mean effect size, 95% CI, 1.34 (1.20–1.49)) and t-tau (mean effect size, 95% CI, 1.47 (1.26–1.67)) were also elevated with moderate effect size in MCI study participants compared to controls. p-tau217 was also assessed, albeit in a small number of eligible studies, for AD vs. CU (mean effect size, 95% CI, 1.89 (1.86–1.92)) and for MCI vs. CU groups (mean effect size, 95% CI, 4.16 (3.61–4.71)). Conclusions: This paper highlights the growing evidence that blood-based tau biomarkers have early diagnostic utility for Alzheimer’s disease. Registration: PROSPERO No. CRD42020209482.	Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, UK	10.3390/cells12081184	2023	12	8	-	-	1184	-
Kostes, William; Brafman, David	The Multifaceted Role of WNT Signaling in Alzheimer’s Disease Onset and Age-Related Progression	Cells	EN	Review	WNT; Alzheimer’s disease; central nervous system; amyloid; tau; inflammation; synaptic function	The evolutionary conserved WNT signaling pathway orchestrates numerous complex biological processes during development and is critical to the maintenance of tissue integrity and homeostasis in the adult. As it relates to the central nervous system, WNT signaling plays several roles as it relates to neurogenesis, synaptic formation, memory, and learning. Thus, dysfunction of this pathway is associated with multiple diseases and disorders, including several neurodegenerative disorders. Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is characterized by several pathologies, synaptic dysfunction, and cognitive decline. In this review, we will discuss the various epidemiological, clinical, and animal studies that demonstrate a precise link between aberrant WNT signaling and AD-associated pathologies. In turn, we will discuss the manner in which WNT signaling influences multiple molecular, biochemical, and cellular pathways upstream of these end-point pathologies. Finally, we will discuss how merging tools and technologies can be used to generate next generation cellular models to dissect the relationship between WNT signaling and AD.	School of Biological and Health Systems Engineering, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85287, USA	10.3390/cells12081204	2023	12	8	-	-	1204	-
Fujikawa, Risako; Tsuda, Makoto	The Functions and Phenotypes of Microglia in Alzheimer’s Disease	Cells	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; microglia; amyloid beta; tau; brain; spinal cord; pain; DAMs; CD11c; ApoE; TREM2; monocyte	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease worldwide, but therapeutic strategies to slow down AD pathology and symptoms have not yet been successful. While attention has been focused on neurodegeneration in AD pathogenesis, recent decades have provided evidence of the importance of microglia, and resident immune cells in the central nervous system. In addition, new technologies, including single-cell RNA sequencing, have revealed heterogeneous cell states of microglia in AD. In this review, we systematically summarize the microglial response to amyloid-β and tau tangles, and the risk factor genes expressed in microglia. Furthermore, we discuss the characteristics of protective microglia that appear during AD pathology and the relationship between AD and microglia-induced inflammation during chronic pain. Understanding the diverse roles of microglia will help identify new therapeutic strategies for AD.	Department of Molecular and System Pharmacology, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan	10.3390/cells12081207	2023	12	8	-	-	1207	-
Niazi, Sarfaraz	RNA Therapeutics: A Healthcare Paradigm Shift	Biomedicines	EN	Review	mRNA; ribonucleic acid (RNA); vaccines; PCR; autoimmune disorders; therapeutic proteins; repurposing drugs; affordable therapies	COVID-19 brought about the mRNA vaccine and a paradigm shift to a new mode of treating and preventing diseases. Synthetic RNA products are a low-cost solution based on a novel method of using nucleosides to act as an innate medicine factory with unlimited therapeutic possibilities. In addition to the common perception of vaccines preventing infections, the newer applications of RNA therapies include preventing autoimmune disorders, such as diabetes, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, and Down syndrome; now, we can deliver monoclonal antibodies, hormones, cytokines, and other complex proteins, reducing the manufacturing hurdles associated with these products. Newer PCR technology removes the need for the bacterial expression of DNA, making mRNA a truly synthetic product. AI-driven product design expands the applications of mRNA technology to repurpose therapeutic proteins and test their safety and efficacy quickly. As the industry focuses on mRNA, many novel opportunities will arise, as hundreds of products under development will bring new perspectives based on this significant paradigm shift—finding newer solutions to existing challenges in healthcare.	College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois, Chicago, IL 60612, USA	10.3390/biomedicines11051275	2023	11	5	-	-	1275	-
Kharmyssov, Chingis; Sekerbayev, Kairolla; Nurekeyev, Zhangatay; Gaipov, Abduzhappar; Utegulov, Zhandos	Mechano-Chemistry across Phase Transitions in Heated Albumin Protein Solutions	Polymers	EN	Article	Brillouin scattering; Raman scattering; viscoelastic; albumin; phase transitions; heating; denaturation; gelation; mechano-chemical; protein; polymer	The presence of certain proteins in biofluids such as synovial fluid, blood plasma, and saliva gives these fluids non-Newtonian viscoelastic properties. The amount of these protein macromolecules in biofluids is an important biomarker for the diagnosis of various health conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, cardiovascular disorders, and joint quality. However, existing technologies for measuring the behavior of macromolecules in biofluids have limitations, such as long turnaround times, complex protocols, and insufficient sensitivity. To address these issues, we propose non-contact, optical Brillouin and Raman spectroscopy to assess the viscoelasticity and chemistry of non-Newtonian solutions, respectively, at different temperatures in several minutes. In this work, bovine and human serum albumin solution-based biopolymers were studied to obtain both their collective dynamics and molecular chemical evolution across heat-driven phase transitions at various protein concentrations. The observed phase transitions at elevated temperatures could be fully delayed in heated biopolymers by appropriately raising the level of protein concentration. The non-contact optical monitoring of viscoelastic and chemical property evolution could represent novel potential mechano-chemical biomarkers for disease diagnosis and subsequent treatment applications, including hyperthermia.	Department of Physics, School of Sciences and Humanities, Nazarbayev University, 010000 Astana, Kazakhstan	10.3390/polym15092039	2023	15	9	-	-	2039	-
Taléns-Visconti, Raquel; de Julián-Ortiz, Jesus; Vila-Busó, Ofelia; Diez-Sales, Octavio; Nácher, Amparo	Intranasal Drug Administration in Alzheimer-Type Dementia: Towards Clinical Applications	Pharmaceutics	EN	Review	intranasal delivery; Alzheimer; blood–brain barrier; nanoparticles; intranasal devices; nanostructured lipid carriers	Alzheimer-type dementia (ATD) treatments face limitations in crossing the blood–brain barrier and systemic adverse effects. Intranasal administration offers a direct route to the brain via the nasal cavity’s olfactory and trigeminal pathways. However, nasal physiology can hinder drug absorption and limit bioavailability. Therefore, the physicochemical characteristics of formulations must be optimized by means of technological strategies. Among the strategies that have been explored, lipid-based nanosystems, particularly nanostructured lipid carriers, are promising in preclinical investigations with minimal toxicity and therapeutic efficacy due to their ability to overcome challenges associated with other nanocarriers. We review the studies of nanostructured lipid carriers for intranasal administration in the treatment of ATD. Currently, no drugs for intranasal administration in ATD have marketing approval, with only three candidates, insulin, rivastigmine and APH-1105, being clinically investigated. Further studies with different candidates will eventually confirm the potential of the intranasal route of administration in the treatment of ATD.	Department of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Technology and Parasitology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Valencia, Av. Vicent Andrés Estellés s/n, 46100 Valencia, Spain	10.3390/pharmaceutics15051399	2023	15	5	-	-	1399	-
Mármol, Inés; Abizanda-Campo, Sara; Ayuso, Jose; Ochoa, Ignacio; Oliván, Sara	Towards Novel Biomimetic In Vitro Models of the Blood–Brain Barrier for Drug Permeability Evaluation	Bioengineering	EN	Review	blood–brain barrier; organ-on-chip; in vitro models; microfluidics; drug screening	Current available animal and in vitro cell-based models for studying brain-related pathologies and drug evaluation face several limitations since they are unable to reproduce the unique architecture and physiology of the human blood–brain barrier. Because of that, promising preclinical drug candidates often fail in clinical trials due to their inability to penetrate the blood–brain barrier (BBB). Therefore, novel models that allow us to successfully predict drug permeability through the BBB would accelerate the implementation of much-needed therapies for glioblastoma, Alzheimer’s disease, and further disorders. In line with this, organ-on-chip models of the BBB are an interesting alternative to traditional models. These microfluidic models provide the necessary support to recreate the architecture of the BBB and mimic the fluidic conditions of the cerebral microvasculature. Herein, the most recent advances in organ-on-chip models for the BBB are reviewed, focusing on their potential to provide robust and reliable data regarding drug candidate ability to reach the brain parenchyma. We point out recent achievements and challenges to overcome in order to advance in more biomimetic in vitro experimental models based on OOO technology. The minimum requirements that should be met to be considered biomimetic (cellular types, fluid flow, and tissular architecture), and consequently, a solid alternative to in vitro traditional models or animals.	Tissue Microenvironment (TME) Lab, Aragón Institute of Engineering Research (I3A), University of Zaragoza, 50018 Zaragoza, Spain	10.3390/bioengineering10050572	2023	10	5	-	-	572	-
Quesada-García, Santiago; Valero-Flores, Pablo; Lozano-Gómez, María	Active and Assisted Living, a Practice for the Ageing Population and People with Cognitive Disabilities: An Architectural Perspective	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Article	Active Assisted Living; ambient intelligence; Ambient Assisted Living; health humanities; healthy architecture; ageing; ambient adapted to Alzheimer’s outpatients; cognitive architectural design	The current digital revolution is causing a paradigm shift encompassing all environments in which human beings conduct their daily activities. Technology is starting to govern the world, gradually modifying not only individual and social behaviour, but also ways of living. The necessary adaptation to new information and communication technologies forces societies to rethink both public and private spaces, in which evolution is slower than rapid social transformation. As part of this change, the concept of Active Assisted Living (AAL) has developed. Assisted spaces can be designed to provide older adults, carers, or people who have cognitive disabilities, such as Alzheimer’s disease or other dementias, with a healthier, safer, and more comfortable life, while also affording them greater personal autonomy. AAL aims to improve people’s quality of life and allow them to remain in their own homes for as long as possible, not in residences. This study conducted a critical review about AAL from an architectural point of view. The research adopted a qualitative approach in which we collected the studies during the last twenty years, then used descriptive, narrative and critical analysis methods. Based on these, this paper aims to explain this new technological paradigm, its characteristics, its main development trends, and its implementation limitations. The results obtained show how the development of AAL will be in the next ten years, and how this concept, and its application, can influence architecture and provide the bases for further research into the design of buildings and cities.	Department of Architectural Design, University of Seville, Av. Reina Mercedes 2, 41012 Seville, Spain	10.3390/ijerph20105886	2023	20	10	-	-	5886	-
Patil, Abhijeet; Kumar, Gaurav; Zhou, Huanyu; Warren, Liling	scViewer: An Interactive Single-Cell Gene Expression Visualization Tool	Cells	EN	Communication	single-cell RNA sequencing; scRNA-seq; R Shiny; bioinformatics; gene expression; co-expression; differential expression analysis	Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) is an attractive technology for researchers to gain valuable insights into the cellular processes and cell type diversity present in all tissues. The data generated by the scRNA-seq experiment are high-dimensional and complex in nature. Several tools are now available to analyze the raw scRNA-seq data from public databases; however, simple and easy-to-explore single-cell gene expression visualization tools focusing on differential expression and co-expression are lacking. Here, we present scViewer, an interactive graphical user interface (GUI) R/Shiny application designed to facilitate the visualization of scRNA-seq gene expression data. With the processed Seurat RDS object as input, scViewer utilizes several statistical approaches to provide detailed information on the loaded scRNA-seq experiment and generates publication-ready plots. The major functionalities of scViewer include exploring cell-type-specific gene expression, co-expression analysis of two genes, and differential expression analysis with different biological conditions considering both cell-level and subject-level variations using negative binomial mixed modeling. We utilized a publicly available dataset (brain cells from a study of Alzheimer’s disease to demonstrate the utility of our tool. scViewer can be downloaded from GitHub as a Shiny app with local installation. Overall, scViewer is a user-friendly application that will allow researchers to visualize and interpret the scRNA-seq data efficiently for multi-condition comparison by performing gene-level differential expression and co-expression analysis on the fly. Considering the functionalities of this Shiny app, scViewer can be a great resource for collaboration between bioinformaticians and wet lab scientists for faster data visualizations.	Global Statistical and Data Sciences, Teva Pharmaceuticals, West Chester, PA 19380, USA	10.3390/cells12111489	2023	12	11	-	-	1489	-
Ciurea, Alexandru; Mohan, Aurel; Covache-Busuioc, Razvan-Adrian; Costin, Horia-Petre; Glavan, Luca-Andrei; Corlatescu, Antonio-Daniel; Saceleanu, Vicentiu	Unraveling Molecular and Genetic Insights into Neurodegenerative Diseases: Advances in Understanding Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and Huntington’s Diseases and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	molecular genetics; neurodegenerative disease; molecular pathology; epigenetics; gene expression; therapeutic targets; biomarkers; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; Huntington’s disease; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	Neurodegenerative diseases are, according to recent studies, one of the main causes of disability and death worldwide. Interest in molecular genetics has started to experience exponential growth thanks to numerous advancements in technology, shifts in the understanding of the disease as a phenomenon, and the change in the perspective regarding gene editing and the advantages of this action. The aim of this paper is to analyze the newest approaches in genetics and molecular sciences regarding four of the most important neurodegenerative disorders: Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, Huntington’s disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We intend through this review to focus on the newest treatment, diagnosis, and predictions regarding this large group of diseases, in order to obtain a more accurate analysis and to identify the emerging signs that could lead to a better outcome in order to increase both the quality and the life span of the patient. Moreover, this review could provide evidence of future possible novel therapies that target the specific genes and that could be useful to be taken into consideration when the classical approaches fail to shed light.	Department of Neurosurgery, “Carol Davila” University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 020021 Bucharest, Romania	10.3390/ijms241310809	2023	24	13	-	-	10809	-
Yen, Chiahui; Lin, Chia-Li; Chiang, Ming-Chang	Exploring the Frontiers of Neuroimaging: A Review of Recent Advances in Understanding Brain Functioning and Disorders	Life	EN	Review	EEG; fMRI; neurological disorders; tDCS	Neuroimaging has revolutionized our understanding of brain function and has become an essential tool for researchers studying neurological disorders. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) are two widely used neuroimaging techniques to review changes in brain activity. fMRI is a noninvasive technique that uses magnetic fields and radio waves to produce detailed brain images. An EEG is a noninvasive technique that records the brain’s electrical activity through electrodes placed on the scalp. This review overviews recent developments in noninvasive functional neuroimaging methods, including fMRI and EEG. Recent advances in fMRI technology, its application to studying brain function, and the impact of neuroimaging techniques on neuroscience research are discussed. Advances in EEG technology and its applications to analyzing brain function and neural oscillations are also highlighted. In addition, advanced courses in neuroimaging, such as diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and transcranial electrical stimulation (TES), are described, along with their role in studying brain connectivity, white matter tracts, and potential treatments for schizophrenia and chronic pain. Application. The review concludes by examining neuroimaging studies of neurodevelopmental and neurological disorders such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), Alzheimer’s disease (AD), and Parkinson’s disease (PD). We also described the role of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in ASD, ADHD, AD, and PD. Neuroimaging techniques have significantly advanced our understanding of brain function and provided essential insights into neurological disorders. However, further research into noninvasive treatments such as EEG, MRI, and TES is necessary to continue to develop new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for neurological disorders.	Department of International Business, Ming Chuan University, Taipei 111, Taiwan	10.3390/life13071472	2023	13	7	-	-	1472	-
Semyachkina-Glushkovskaya, Oxana; Penzel, Thomas; Poluektov, Mikhail; Fedosov, Ivan; Tzoy, Maria; Terskov, Andrey; Blokhina, Inna; Sidorov, Viktor; Kurths, Jürgen	Phototherapy of Alzheimer’s Disease: Photostimulation of Brain Lymphatics during Sleep: A Systematic Review	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; phototherapy; sleep; photostimulation; mechanisms; brain lymphatic system; brain drainage; beta amyloid; smart sleep technologies; neurodegenerative diseases	The global number of people with Alzheimer’s disease (AD) doubles every 5 years. It has been established that unless an effective treatment for AD is found, the incidence of AD will triple by 2060. However, pharmacological therapies for AD have failed to show effectiveness and safety. Therefore, the search for alternative methods for treating AD is an urgent problem in medicine. The lymphatic drainage and removal system of the brain (LDRSB) plays an important role in resistance to the progression of AD. The development of methods for augmentation of the LDRSB functions may contribute to progress in AD therapy. Photobiomodulation (PBM) is considered to be a non-pharmacological and safe approach for AD therapy. Here, we highlight the most recent and relevant studies of PBM for AD. We focus on emerging evidence that indicates the potential benefits of PBM during sleep for modulation of natural activation of the LDRSB at nighttime, providing effective removal of metabolites, including amyloid-β, from the brain, leading to reduced progression of AD. Our review creates a new niche in the therapy of brain diseases during sleep and sheds light on the development of smart sleep technologies for neurodegenerative diseases.	Department of Physics, Humboldt University, Newtonstrasse 15, 12489 Berlin, Germany	10.3390/ijms241310946	2023	24	13	-	-	10946	-
Chauhan, Nishant; Choi, Byung-Jae	Classification of Alzheimer’s Disease Using Maximal Information Coefficient-Based Functional Connectivity with an Extreme Learning Machine	Brain Sciences	EN	Article	functional connectivity; fMRI; alzheimer’s disease; pearson correlation; maximal information coefficient; machine learning; deep learning; extreme learning machine	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a progressive chronic illness that leads to cognitive decline and dementia. Neuroimaging technologies, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and deep learning approaches offer promising avenues for AD classification. In this study, we investigate the use of fMRI-based functional connectivity (FC) measures, including the Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC), maximal information coefficient (MIC), and extended maximal information coefficient (eMIC), combined with extreme learning machines (ELM) for AD classification. Our findings demonstrate that employing non-linear techniques, such as MIC and eMIC, as features for classification yields accurate results. Specifically, eMIC-based features achieve a high accuracy of 94% for classifying cognitively normal (CN) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) individuals, outperforming PCC (81%) and MIC (85%). For MCI and AD classification, MIC achieves higher accuracy (81%) compared to PCC (58%) and eMIC (78%). In CN and AD classification, eMIC exhibits the best accuracy of 95% compared to MIC (90%) and PCC (87%). These results underscore the effectiveness of fMRI-based features derived from non-linear techniques in accurately differentiating AD and MCI individuals from CN individuals, emphasizing the potential of neuroimaging and machine learning methods for improving AD diagnosis and classification.	Department of Electronic Engineering, Daegu University, Gyeongsan 38453, Republic of Korea	10.3390/brainsci13071046	2023	13	7	-	-	1046	-
Del Valle, Julieta; Chuva de Sousa Lopes, Susana	Bioengineered 3D Ovarian Models as Paramount Technology for Female Health Management and Reproduction	Bioengineering	EN	Review	ovarian organoid; artificial ovary; tumoroids; reproductive biology; in vitro folliculogenesis; tissue engineering; personalized medicine; pluripotent stem cells; ovarian cancer	Ovarian dysfunction poses significant threats to the health of female individuals. Ovarian failure can lead to infertility due to the lack or inefficient production of fertilizable eggs. In addition, the ovary produces hormones, such as estrogen and progesterone, that play crucial roles not only during pregnancy, but also in maintaining cardiovascular, bone, and cognitive health. Decline in estrogen and progesterone production due to ovarian dysfunction can result in menopausal-associated syndromes and lead to conditions, such as osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer’s disease. Recent advances in the design of bioengineered three-dimensional (3D) ovarian models, such as ovarian organoids or artificial ovaries, have made it possible to mimic aspects of the cellular heterogeneity and functional characteristics of the ovary in vitro. These novel technologies are emerging as valuable tools for studying ovarian physiology and pathology and may provide alternatives for fertility preservation. Moreover, they may have the potential to restore aspects of ovarian function, improving the quality of life of the (aging) female population. This review focuses on the state of the art of 3D ovarian platforms, including the latest advances modeling female reproduction, female physiology, ovarian cancer, and drug screening.	Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Leiden University Medical Center, 2333 ZC Leiden, The Netherlands	10.3390/bioengineering10070832	2023	10	7	-	-	832	-
McNett, Sienna; Vyshedskiy, Andrey; Savchenko, Andrei; Durakovic, Danijel; Heredia, George; Cahn, Rael; Kogan, Mikhail	A Feasibility Study of AlzLife 40 Hz Sensory Therapy in Patients with MCI and Early AD	Healthcare	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s Disease; Mild Cognitive Impairment; light therapy; integrative medicine; technology; smart device; neurology; neuroscience	Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) are debilitating diseases that affect millions of individuals and have notoriously limited treatment options. One emerging therapy, non-invasive 40 Hz sensory therapy delivered through light and sound has previously shown promise in improving cognition in Alzheimer Disease (AD) rodent models. Small studies in humans have proven safe and tolerable, however exploration of feasibility and utility is limited. The purpose of this study is to examine the feasibility of this treatment in a human population through a smart tablet application that emits light and sound waves at 40 Hz to the user over the span of 1 h a day. Confirmation of entrainment of 40 Hz stimulation in the cerebral cortex was performed via EEG. 27 preliminary subjects with subjective cognitive complaints, Mild Cognitive Impairment, or AD were enrolled in the study; 11 participants completed 6 months of therapy. Of those that discontinued treatment, other health issues and difficulties with compliance were the most common causes. Participants were followed with Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA) and Boston Cognitive Assessment (BOCA). For participants with subjective cognitive complaints, 2 of the 4 had improved MOCA score and 1 of 4 had improved BOCA score. For the participant with MCI, his MOCA score improved. For AD participants, 2 out of 6 had improved MOCA score and 3 of the 6 stayed stable, while 3 of 6 BOCA score improved. 4 of 11 participants specifically increased their MOCA scores in the Memory Index section. Of the 8 participants/caregivers able to speak to perceived usefulness of the study, 6 spoke to at least some level of benefit. Of these 6, 2 enrolled with subjective cognitive complaint, 1 had MCI, and 3 had AD. The therapy did not have reported side effects. However, those who did not finish the study experienced issues obtaining and operating a smart tablet independently as well as complying with the therapy. Overall, further exploration of this treatment modalities efficacy is warranted.	Center for Integrative Medicine, George Washington University, Washington, DC 20052, USA	10.3390/healthcare11142040	2023	11	14	-	-	2040	-
Rey, Verónica; Tamargo-Gómez, Isaac	From Kinases to Diseases: Investigating the Role of AMPK in Human Pathologies	Kinases and Phosphatases	EN	Review	AMPK; human disease; autophagy; therapeutic target; metformin	Adenosine Monophosphate-Activated Protein Kinase (AMPK) is the major conserved regulator of cellular metabolism in eukaryotic cells, from yeast to mammals. Given its pivotal role, it is not surprising that alterations in its function may contribute to the pathogenesis of numerous human diseases. Indeed, AMPK has become a promising therapeutic target for several pathologies. In this context, significant efforts have been dedicated to discovering new pharmacological agents capable of activating AMPK based on next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology and personalized medicine. Thanks to computational methodologies and high-throughput screening, the identification of small molecules and compounds with the potential to directly activate AMPK or modulate its intricate signaling network has become viable. However, the most widely used drug to activate AMPK in human patients is still metformin, which has shown promising results in the treatment of various diseases, such as type II diabetes, atherosclerosis, Alzheimer’s disease, Huntington’s disease, and several types of cancer. In this review, we present a comprehensive analysis of the involvement of AMPK in human pathology, emphasizing its significant potential as a therapeutic target.	Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias (ISPA), 33011 Oviedo, Spain	10.3390/kinasesphosphatases1030012	2023	1	3	-	-	12	-
Ekeuku, Sophia; Mohd Murshid, Nuraqila; Shukri, Siti; Mohd Sahardi, Nur; Makpol, Suzana	Effect of Vitamin E on Transcriptomic Alterations in Alzheimer’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	vitamin E; transcriptomics changes; Alzheimer’s disease	Research into ageing is focused on understanding why some people can maintain cognitive ability and others lose autonomy, affecting their quality of life. Studies have revealed that age-related neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer’s disease (AD) are now major causes of death among the elderly, surpassing malignancy. This review examines the effects of vitamin E on transcriptomic changes in ageing and neurodegenerative diseases, using AD as an example, and how different transcriptome profiling techniques can shape the results. Despite mixed results from transcriptomic studies on AD patients’ brains, we think advanced technologies could offer a more detailed and accurate tool for such analysis. Research has also demonstrated the role of antioxidant modifiers in preventing AD. This review will explore the key findings regarding AD and its modulation by vitamin E, emphasizing the shift in its epidemiology during the ageing process.	Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Level 17, Preclinical Building, Jalan Yaacob Latif, Bandar Tun Razak, Cheras, Kuala Lumpur 56000, Malaysia	10.3390/ijms241512372	2023	24	15	-	-	12372	-
Wickstead, Edward	Using Stems to Bear Fruit: Deciphering the Role of Alzheimer’s Disease Risk Loci in Human-Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Microglia	Biomedicines	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; GWAS; iPSC; microglia; neurodegeneration; neuroinflammation; stem cells	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder globally. In people aged 65 and older, it is estimated that 1 in 9 currently live with the disease. With aging being the greatest risk factor for disease onset, the physiological, social and economic burden continues to rise. Thus, AD remains a public health priority. Since 2007, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified over 80 genomic loci with variants associated with increased AD risk. Although some variants are beginning to be characterized, the effects of many risk loci remain to be elucidated. One advancement which may help provide a patient-focused approach to tackle this issue is the application of gene editing technology and human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). The relatively non-invasive acquisition of cells from patients with known AD risk loci may provide important insights into the pathological role of these risk variants. Of the risk genes identified, many have been associated with the immune system, including ABCA7, CLU, MEF2C, PICALM and TREM2—genes known to be highly expressed in microglia. This review will detail the potential of using hiPSC-derived microglia to help clarify the role of immune-associated genetic risk variants in AD.	Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA	10.3390/biomedicines11082240	2023	11	8	-	-	2240	-
Coronel, Raquel; Bernabeu-Zornoza, Adela; Palmer, Charlotte; González-Sastre, Rosa; Rosca, Andreea; Mateos-Martínez, Patricia; López-Alonso, Victoria; Liste, Isabel	Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP) Regulates Gliogenesis and Neurogenesis of Human Neural Stem Cells by Several Signaling Pathways	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	amyloid precursor protein; neural stem cells; neurogenesis; gliogenesis; signaling pathways; RNA sequencing	Numerous studies have focused on the pathophysiological role of amyloid precursor protein (APP) because the proteolytic processing of APP to β-amyloid (Aβ) peptide is a central event in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). However, many authors consider that alterations in the physiological functions of APP are likely to play a key role in AD. Previous studies in our laboratory revealed that APP plays an important role in the differentiation of human neural stem cells (hNSCs), favoring glial differentiation (gliogenesis) and preventing their differentiation toward a neuronal phenotype (neurogenesis). In the present study, we have evaluated the effects of APP overexpression in hNSCs at a global gene level by a transcriptomic analysis using the massive RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) technology. Specifically, we have focused on differentially expressed genes that are related to neuronal and glial differentiation processes, as well as on groups of differentially expressed genes associated with different signaling pathways, in order to find a possible interaction between them and APP. Our data indicate a differential expression in genes related to Notch, Wnt, PI3K-AKT, and JAK-STAT signaling, among others. Knowledge of APP biological functions, as well as the possible signaling pathways that could be related to this protein, are essential to advance our understanding of AD.	Unidad de Regeneración Neural, Unidad Funcional de Investigación de Enfermedades Crónicas, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Majadahonda, 28220 Madrid, Spain	10.3390/ijms241612964	2023	24	16	-	-	12964	-
Arendash, Gary	The Evidence That Brain Cancers Could Be Effectively Treated with In-Home Radiofrequency Waves	Cancers	EN	Perspective	brain cancer; gliomas; treatment; non-thermal radiofrequency waves; meningeal lymph flow; immune trafficking; cytokines; rebalancing	There is currently no effective therapeutic capable of arresting or inducing regression of primary or metastatic brain cancers. This article presents both pre-clinical and clinical studies supportive that a new bioengineered technology could induce regression and/or elimination of primary and metastatic brain cancers through three disease-modifying mechanisms. Transcranial Radiofrequency Wave Treatment (TRFT) is non-thermal, non-invasive and self-administered in-home to safely provide radiofrequency waves to the entire human brain. Since TRFT has already been shown to stop and reverse the cognitive decline of Alzheimer’s Disease in small studies, evidence is provided that three key mechanisms of TRFT action, alone or in synergy, could effectively treat brain cancers: (1) enhancement of brain meningeal lymph flow to increase immune trafficking between the brain cancer and cervical lymph nodes, resulting in a robust immune attack on the brain cancer; (2) rebalancing of the immune system’s cytokines within the brain or brain cancer environment to decrease inflammation therein and thus make for an inhospitable environment for brain cancer growth; (3) direct anti-proliferation/antigrowth affects within the brain tumor microenvironment. Importantly, these mechanisms of TRFT action could be effective against both visualized brain tumors and those that are yet too small to be identified through brain imaging. The existing animal and human clinical evidence presented in this perspective article justifies TRFT to be clinically tested immediately against both primary and metastatic brain cancers as monotherapy or possibly in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors.	RF Longevity SE, Phoenix, AZ 85022, USA	10.3390/cancers17162665	2025	17	16	-	-	2665	-
Chamkouri, Hossein; Motlagh Mohavi, Sahar	Microglia and Macrophages in Central Nervous System Homeostasis and Disease Progression: Guardians and Executioners	Neuroglia	EN	Review	microglia; macrophages; neuroinflammation; blood–brain barrier	Microglia and macrophages are critical immune cells within the central nervous system (CNS), with distinct roles in development, homeostasis, and disease. Once viewed as passive bystanders, these cells are now recognized for their dynamic phenotypic plasticity, which enables them to respond to a wide range of physiological and pathological stimuli. During homeostasis, microglia and CNS-resident macrophages actively participate in synaptic pruning, neuronal support, myelin regulation, and immune surveillance, contributing to CNS integrity. However, under pathological conditions, these cells can adopt neurotoxic phenotypes, exacerbating neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and neuronal damage in diseases such as Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis, and glioblastoma. This review synthesizes emerging insights into the molecular, epigenetic, and metabolic mechanisms that govern the behavior of microglia and macrophages, highlighting their developmental origins, niche-specific programming, and interactions with other CNS cells. We also explore novel therapeutic strategies aimed at modulating these immune cells to restore CNS homeostasis, including nanotechnology-based approaches for selective targeting, reprogramming, and imaging. Understanding the complex roles of microglia and macrophages in both health and disease is crucial for the development of precise therapies targeting neuroimmune interfaces. Continued advances in single-cell technologies and nanomedicine are paving the way for future therapeutic interventions in neurological disorders.	Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Tabriz, Tabriz 51666-16471, Iran	10.3390/neuroglia6030031	2025	6	3	-	-	31	-
Salvi, Sanket; Garg, Lalit; Gurupur, Varadraj	Stage-Wise IoT Solutions for Alzheimer’s Disease: A Systematic Review of Detection, Monitoring, and Assistive Technologies	Sensors	EN	Systematic Review	Internet of Things; Alzheimer’s disease monitoring; sleep disorder detection; wearable healthcare devices; artificial intelligence in healthcare; Remote Patient Monitoring; machine learning in healthcare; healthcare data privacy and ethics	The Internet of Things (IoT) has emerged as a transformative technology in managing Alzheimer’s Disease (AD), offering novel solutions for early diagnosis, continuous patient monitoring, and assistive care. This review presents a comprehensive analysis of IoT-enabled systems tailored to AD care, focusing on wearable biosensors, cognitive monitoring tools, smart home automation, and Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven analytics. A systematic literature survey was conducted using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines to identify, screen, and synthesize 236 relevant studies primarily published between 2020 and 2025 across IEEE Xplore, PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science. The inclusion criteria targeted peer-reviewed articles that proposed or evaluated IoT-based solutions for AD detection, progression monitoring, or patient assistance. Key findings highlight the effectiveness of the IoT in detecting behavioral and cognitive changes, enhancing safety through real-time alerts, and improving patient autonomy. The review also explores integration challenges such as data privacy, system interoperability, and clinical adoption. The study reveals critical gaps in real-world deployment, clinical validation, and ethical integration of IoT-based systems for Alzheimer’s care. This study aims to serve as a definitive reference for researchers, clinicians, and developers working at the intersection of the IoT and neurodegenerative healthcare.	Center for Decision Support Systems and Informatics, School of Global Health Management and Informatics, University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL 32816, USA	10.3390/s25175252	2025	25	17	-	-	5252	-
Yu, Yiru; Wang, Zhen; Chai, Zhen; Ma, Shuyu; Li, Ang; Li, Ye	Central Nervous System-Derived Extracellular Vesicles as Biomarkers in Alzheimer’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; central nervous system-derived extracellular vesicles; biomarkers; advanced technology	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) has emerged as a global health threat that demands early detection to seize the optimal intervention opportunity. Central nervous system (CNS)-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs), lipid-bilayer nanoparticles released by CNS cells, carry key biomolecules involved in AD pathology, positioning them as a promising source of biomarkers for early detection. Current breakthroughs in EV-based isolation and detection technologies have opened up the possibility of early, accurate AD diagnosis. This review summarizes their multifaceted roles in AD pathogenesis, including amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregation, tau propagation, neuroinflammation, and synaptic dysfunction, and highlights neuron- and glia-derived EV biomarkers with translational potential. We further outline recent advances in EV isolation techniques—including density-, size-, charge/dielectric-, immunoaffinity-, and acoustics-based approaches—and emerging detection platforms such as fluorescence, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS), electrochemical, and nanomechanical sensors for sensitive, multiplex AD diagnostics. Finally, we discuss key challenges, including standardization, sensitivity, and high-throughput adaptation, and explore future directions such as automated microfluidics and single-vesicle analysis. CNS-derived EVs hold significant promise as minimally invasive, next-generation tools for early AD detection and precision medicine.	Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Province for Craniofacial Precision Medicine Research, College of Stomatology, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Xi’an 710049, China	10.3390/ijms26178272	2025	26	17	-	-	8272	-
Solares, Lucía; García-Navarra, Sara; Llana, Tania; Garces-Arilla, Sara; Mendez, Marta	Immersive Technologies Targeting Spatial Memory Decline: A Systematic Review	Biomedicines	EN	Systematic Review	spatial memory; virtual reality; mixed reality; aging; navigation; immersive technology; neuropsychology; cognitive assessment	Background/Objectives: The ability to preserve cognitive health in aging populations increasingly relies on early detection and intervention in neurodegenerative processes. Spatial memory, a fundamental cognitive ability supporting navigation, environmental awareness, and daily independence, often deteriorates in the preclinical stages of neurodegenerative diseases. However, conventional assessment tools frequently lack ecological validity and fail to capture the multifaceted nature of spatial cognition in real-world contexts. This systematic review aims to examine the application of immersive technologies, specifically Immersive Virtual Reality (VR) and Mixed Reality (MR), in the evaluation and rehabilitation of spatial memory. Methods: Following PRISMA guidelines, a total of 42 peer-reviewed studies were selected from SCOPUS, Web of Science, and PubMed databases. We included original, peer-reviewed studies that assessed spatial memory or cognition using VR/MR in adults aged ≥50 or clinical populations at neurodegenerative risk and reported quantitative data or diagnostic validity. A narrative synthesis was performed to examine the most employed immersive tools, assessing their benefits, limitations, and practical challenges. Results: Findings indicate substantial variability in diagnostic sensitivity, ecological validity, and user engagement across platforms. Nevertheless, the evidence supports the potential of immersive environments as effective tools for the early detection of spatial disorientation and cognitive decline, particularly in at-risk populations such as individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer’s Disease. Conclusions: Immersive and semi-immersive VR technologies represent a promising advancement in spatial memory assessment and rehabilitation, offering scalable solutions for both clinical and home-based interventions in aging populations.	Department of Psychology, Faculty of Psychology, University of Oviedo, Plaza Feijoo s/n, 33003 Oviedo, Spain	10.3390/biomedicines13092105	2025	13	9	-	-	2105	-
Dall’Ora, Nicola; Felli, Lorenzo; Aldegheri, Stefano; Vicino, Nicola; Giuliano, Romeo	LumiCare: A Context-Aware Mobile System for Alzheimer’s Patients Integrating AI Agents and 6G	Electronics	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; smart wearable medical devices (SWMDs); Internet of Things (IoT); mHealth applications; early detection; disease progression monitoring; 6G; chatbots; assistive technologies	Alzheimer’s disease is a growing global health concern, demanding innovative solutions for early detection, continuous monitoring, and patient support. This article reviews recent advances in Smart Wearable Medical Devices (SWMDs), Internet of Things (IoT) systems, and mobile applications used to monitor physiological, behavioral, and cognitive changes in Alzheimer’s patients. We highlight the role of wearable sensors in detecting vital signs, falls, and geolocation data, alongside IoT architectures that enable real-time alerts and remote caregiver access. Building on these technologies, we present LumiCare, a conceptual, context-aware mobile system that integrates multimodal sensor data, chatbot-based interaction, and emerging 6G network capabilities. LumiCare uses machine learning for behavioral analysis, delivers personalized cognitive prompts, and enables emergency response through adaptive alerts and caregiver notifications. The system includes the LumiCare Companion, an interactive mobile app designed to support daily routines, cognitive engagement, and safety monitoring. By combining local AI processing with scalable edge-cloud architectures, LumiCare balances latency, privacy, and computational load. While promising, this work remains at the design stage and has not yet undergone clinical validation. Our analysis underscores the potential of wearable, IoT, and mobile technologies to improve the quality of life for Alzheimer’s patients, support caregivers, and reduce healthcare burdens.	Department of Engineering Sciences, Guglielmo Marconi University, Via Plinio 44, 00193 Rome, Italy	10.3390/electronics14173516	2025	14	17	-	-	3516	-
Mbue, Ngozi; Tabei, Fatemeh; Williams, Karen; Olanrewaju, Kazeem	Innovative Sensor-Based Approaches for Assessing Neurodegenerative Diseases: A Brief State-of-the-Art Review	Sensors	EN	Review	neurodegenerative diseases; sensors; technologies; innovation; clinical practice	Sensor-based approaches are transforming the diagnosis and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases by offering more sensitive, non-invasive tools and are capable of real-time monitoring. Integrating advanced materials, nanotechnology, and artificial intelligence presents promise for earlier detection, enhanced disease management, and improved patient outcomes. From a clinical perspective, these technologies facilitate the shift toward precision medicine by enabling early intervention strategies, real-time treatment monitoring, and more refined patient stratification in practice and research contexts. This review provides an overview of recent advancements in sensor-based technologies aimed at enhancing the diagnosis and monitoring of neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, among others. Sensor-based technologies are adjunct tools and integral components of a next-generation framework for diagnosing, monitoring, and understanding neurodegenerative disorders.	Nelda C. Stark College of Nursing, Texas Woman’s University, Houston, TX 77030, USA	10.3390/s25175476	2025	25	17	-	-	5476	-
Grabowska, Weronika; Bijak, Michal; Szelenberger, Rafał; Gorniak, Leslaw; Podogrocki, Marcin; Harmata, Piotr; Cichon, Natalia	Acetylcholinesterase as a Multifunctional Target in Amyloid-Driven Neurodegeneration: From Dual-Site Inhibitors to Anti-Agregation Strategies	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	acetylcholinesterase inhibitors; multi-target-directed ligands; amyloid aggregation; dual-site inhibitors; neurodegeneration	Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) has emerged not only as a cholinergic enzyme but also as a modulator of β-amyloid (Aβ) aggregation via its peripheral anionic site (PAS), making it a dual-purpose target in Alzheimer’s disease. While classical AChE inhibitors provide symptomatic relief, they lack efficacy against the amyloidogenic cascade. This review highlights recent advances in multifunctional AChE pharmacophores that inhibit enzymatic activity while simultaneously interfering with Aβ aggregation, oxidative stress, metal dyshomeostasis, and neuroinflammation. Particular emphasis is placed on dual-site inhibitors targeting both catalytic and peripheral domains, multi-target-directed ligands (MTDLs) acting on multiple neurodegenerative pathways, and metal-chelating hybrids that address redox-active metal ions promoting Aβ fibrillization. We also discuss enabling technologies such as AI-assisted drug design, high-resolution structural tools, and human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neuronal models that support physiologically relevant validation. These insights reflect a paradigm shift towards disease-modifying therapies that bridge molecular pharmacology and pathophysiological relevance.	Biohazard Prevention Centre, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland	10.3390/ijms26178726	2025	26	17	-	-	8726	-
Higuchi, Makoto	Imaging of Proteinopathies in the Brains of Parkinsonian Disorders	Cells	EN	Review	frontotemporal lobar degeneration; multiple system atrophy; Parkinson’s disease; dementia with Lewy bodies; cross-β structure; cryo-electron microscopy	Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD), frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), and α-synucleinopathies—including Parkinson’s disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and multiple system atrophy (MSA)—are characterized by the accumulation of misfolded protein aggregates. Advances in positron emission tomography (PET) imaging have enabled in vivo visualization of these pathologies, particularly tau and α-synuclein fibrils, facilitating early diagnosis and differential classification. Tau PET tracers such as 18F-florzolotau have demonstrated robust imaging of both AD-type and 4-repeat tauopathies, including atypical parkinsonian syndromes in FTLD such as progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration. Cryo-electron microscopy has elucidated the molecular interactions underlying tracer binding, highlighting hydrophobic grooves in cross-βstructures as binding components commonly present in multiple tau fibril types. For α-synucleinopathies, new tracers with a modified cross-β-binding scaffold, including 18F-SPAL-T-06 and 18F-C05-05, have shown promise in detecting MSA-related pathology and, more recently, midbrain pathology in PD and DLB. However, sensitive detection of pathologies in early PD/DLB stages remains a challenge. The integration of high-resolution PET technologies and structurally optimized ligands may enable earlier and more accurate detection of protein aggregates, supporting both clinical decision-making and the development of targeted disease-modifying therapies.	Advanced Neuroimaging Center, Institute for Quantum Medical Science, National Institutes for Quantum Science and Technology, Chiba 263-8555, Japan	10.3390/cells14181418	2025	14	18	-	-	1418	-
Sirizi, Delaram; Sabet, Morteza; Hummel, Katelyn; Bacsu, Juanita-Dawne; Longo, Ava; Rahemi, Zahra	Independent Living for Older Adults with Cognitive Impairment: A Narrative Review of Stakeholder Perceptions and Experiences with Assistive and Socially Assistive Robots	Journal of Ageing and Longevity	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; dementia; cognitive impairment; human–robot interactions; artificial intelligence; independent living; robot-assisted support	(1) Background: Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias (ADRD) are a major cause of mortality among older adults globally. The cognitive decline associated with ADRD often reduces individuals’ ability to live independently over time, increasing reliance on caregivers. Assistive and socially assistive robots offer a promising means of supporting independent living. This narrative review examined how older adults with ADRD, their caregivers, and healthcare providers perceive and experience interactions with robots. (2) Methods: Guided by the Population, Phenomenon of Interest, and Context (PICo) framework, five databases were searched. Sixteen studies met the inclusion criteria. Extracted data were summarized, and a convergent synthesis integrated qualitative and quantitative findings. (3) Results: Drawing on content analysis, the qualitative findings were organized into three domains: user perceptions and experiences, barriers to adoption, and suggestions for improvement. Quantitative results emphasized usability, usefulness, acceptance, satisfaction, feature preferences, and barriers. While most stakeholders viewed robots as beneficial, acceptance was shaped by factors such as design features, timing of introduction, familiarity with technology, and perceived need. (4) Conclusions: This review highlights priorities for future research and development, including personalization, ethical safeguards, and caregiver integration, to improve the acceptance and effectiveness of robot-assisted support for individuals with cognitive impairment.	Department of Biological, Environmental, and Earth Sciences, University of South Carolina Aiken, Aiken, SC 29801, USA	10.3390/jal5030034	2025	5	3	-	-	34	-
Genchi, Giuseppe; Catalano, Alessia; Carocci, Alessia; Sinicropi, Maria; Lauria, Graziantonio	Copper, Cuproptosis, and Neurodegenerative Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	copper; copper homeostasis; cuproptosis; mitochondria; neurodegenerative diseases; chelating drugs	Copper is a vital micronutrient for animals and plants acting as a crucial cofactor in the synthesis of numerous metabolic enzymes and contributing to mitochondrial respiration, metabolism, oxido-reductive reactions, signal transmission, and oxidative and nitrosative damage. In the cells, copper may exist in the Cu+ and Cu++ oxidation states and the interconversion between these two states may occur via various redox reactions regulating cellular respiration, energy metabolism, and cell growth. The human body maintains a low level of copper, and copper deficiency or copper excess may adversely affect cellular functions; therefore, regulation of copper levels within a narrow range is important for maintaining metabolic homeostasis. Recent studies identified a new copper-dependent form of cell death called cuproptosis. Cuproptosis occurs due to copper binding to lipoylated enzymes (for instance, pyruvate dehydrogenase and α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase) in the tricarboxylic acid Krebs cycle. In recent years, extensive studies on copper homeostasis and copper-induced cell death in degenerative disorders, like Menkes, Wilson, Alzheimer, Parkinson’s, Huntington’s diseases, and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, have discussed the therapeutic potential of targeting cuproptosis. Copper contamination in the environment, which has increased in recent years due to the expansion of agricultural and industrial activities, is associated with a wide range of human health risks. Soil used for the cultivation of grapes has a long history of copper-based fungicide application (the Bordeaux mixture is rich in copper) resulting in copper accumulation at levels capable of causing toxicity in plants that co-inhabit the vineyards. Phytoremediation, which uses plants and biological solutions to remove toxic heavy metals and pesticides and other contaminants from soil and water, is an environmentally friendly and cost-effective technology used for the removal of copper. It requires plants to be tolerant of high levels of copper and capable of accumulating metal copper in plants’ aerial organs and roots. This review aims at highlighting the importance of copper as an essential metal, as well as its involvement in cuproptosis and neurodegenerative diseases.	Dipartimento di Farmacia e Scienze della Salute e della Nutrizione, Università della Calabria, Arcavacata di Rende, 87036 Cosenza, Italy	10.3390/ijms26189173	2025	26	18	-	-	9173	-
Sridev, Janani; Deen, Arif; Ali, Md; Ting, Wei-Ting; Deen, M.; Howlader, Matiar	Advanced Electrochemical Sensors for Rapid and Sensitive Monitoring of Tryptophan and Tryptamine in Clinical Diagnostics	Biosensors	EN	Review	electrochemical sensors; tryptophan; tryptamine; nanomaterials; point-of-care diagnostics; artificial intelligence	Tryptophan (Trp) and tryptamine (Tryp), critical biomarkers in mood regulation, immune function, and metabolic homeostasis, are increasingly recognized for their roles in both oral and systemic pathologies, including neurodegenerative disorders, cancers, and inflammatory conditions. Their rapid, sensitive detection in biofluids such as saliva—a non-invasive, real-time diagnostic medium—offers transformative potential for early disease identification and personalized health monitoring. This review synthesizes advancements in electrochemical sensor technologies tailored for Trp and Tryp quantification, emphasizing their clinical relevance in diagnosing conditions like oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), Alzheimer’s disease (AD), and breast cancer, where dysregulated Trp metabolism reflects immune dysfunction or tumor progression. Electrochemical platforms have overcome the limitations of conventional techniques (e.g., enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) and mass spectrometry) by integrating innovative nanomaterials and smart engineering strategies. Carbon-based architectures, such as graphene (Gr) and carbon nanotubes (CNTs) functionalized with metal nanoparticles (Ni and Co) or nitrogen dopants, amplify electron transfer kinetics and catalytic activity, achieving sub-nanomolar detection limits. Synergies between doping and advanced functionalization—via aptamers (Apt), molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs), or metal-oxide hybrids—impart exceptional selectivity, enabling the precise discrimination of Trp and Tryp in complex matrices like saliva. Mechanistically, redox reactions at the indole ring are optimized through tailored electrode interfaces, which enhance reaction kinetics and stability over repeated cycles. Translational strides include 3D-printed microfluidics and wearable sensors for continuous intraoral health surveillance, demonstrating clinical utility in detecting elevated Trp levels in OSCC and breast cancer. These platforms align with point-of-care (POC) needs through rapid response times, minimal fouling, and compatibility with scalable fabrication. However, challenges persist in standardizing saliva collection, mitigating matrix interference, and validating biomarkers across diverse populations. Emerging solutions, such as AI-driven analytics and antifouling coatings, coupled with interdisciplinary efforts to refine device integration and manufacturing, are critical to bridging these gaps. By harmonizing material innovation with clinical insights, electrochemical sensors promise to revolutionize precision medicine, offering cost-effective, real-time diagnostics for both localized oral pathologies and systemic diseases. As the field advances, addressing stability and scalability barriers will unlock the full potential of these technologies, transforming them into indispensable tools for early intervention and tailored therapeutic monitoring in global healthcare.	Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, McMaster University, 1280 Main Street West, Hamilton, ON L8S 4K1, Canada	10.3390/bios15090626	2025	15	9	-	-	626	-
Bilski, Rafał; Dąbkowski, Stanisław; Kozieł, Igor; Kozicki, Michał; Małachowska, Anna; Przygocki, Mikołaj; Tyska, Oliwia	Perspectives on Alzheimer’s Disease Treatment Based on Counteracting Oxidative Stress	Biomolecules	EN	Review	Alzheimer disease; oxidative stress; antioxidants; therapeutic strategies; neurodegeneration	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder and one of the most pressing global health challenges. Increasing evidence highlights oxidative stress as a key factor in its pathogenesis, contributing to amyloid-β accumulation, tau hyperphosphorylation, neuroinflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Oxidative stress markers, detected in the bodily fluids of AD patients, are considered promising diagnostic and prognostic tools. Despite extensive research, currently available therapies remain largely symptomatic, which emphasizes the need to develop novel, disease-modifying strategies. The aim of this review is to summarize current knowledge on the role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of AD and to evaluate therapeutic approaches aimed at its reduction. We discuss molecular mechanisms linking reactive oxygen species to neurodegeneration and present pharmacological strategies such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors and multifunctional agents, as well as natural antioxidants, dietary interventions, and novel therapeutic technologies. We pay particular attention to their efficacy, limitations, and translational challenges. A more profound understanding of oxidative stress-related mechanisms may facilitate the development of combined antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective approaches, offering new perspectives for delaying disease progression and improving patient outcomes.	Department of Medical Biology and Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Ludwik Rydygier Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, 24 Karłowicza St., 85-092 Bydgoszcz, Poland	10.3390/biom15091345	2025	15	9	-	-	1345	-
Iacono, Diego; Feltis, Gloria	Idea Density and Grammatical Complexity as Neurocognitive Markers	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	neurobiology of language; universal grammar; neurodegenerative disorders; idea density; grammatical complexity; genetic factors; comparative neuroanatomy; cognitive reserve; AI in neurolinguistics	Language, a uniquely human cognitive faculty, is fundamentally characterized by its capacity for complex thoughts and structured expressions. This review examines two critical measures of linguistic performance: idea density (ID) and grammatical complexity (GC). ID quantifies the richness of information conveyed per unit of language, reflecting semantic efficiency and conceptual processing. GC, conversely, measures the structural sophistication of syntax, indicative of hierarchical organization and rule-based operations. We explore the neurobiological underpinnings of these measures, identifying key brain regions and white matter pathways involved in their generation and comprehension. This includes linking ID to a distributed network of semantic hubs, like the anterior temporal lobe and temporoparietal junction, and GC to a fronto-striatal procedural network encompassing Broca’s area and the basal ganglia. Moreover, a central theme is the integration of Chomsky’s theories of Universal Grammar (UG), which posits an innate human linguistic endowment, with their neurobiological correlates. This integration analysis bridges foundational models that first mapped syntax (Friederici’s work) to distinct neural pathways with contemporary network-based theories that view grammar as an emergent property of dynamic, inter-regional neural oscillations. Furthermore, we examine the genetic factors influencing ID and GC, including genes implicated in neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders. A comparative anatomical perspective across human and non-human primates illuminates the evolutionary trajectory of the language-ready brain. Also, we emphasize that, clinically, ID and GC serve as sensitive neurocognitive markers whose power lies in their often-dissociable profiles. For instance, the primary decline of ID in Alzheimer’s disease contrasts with the severe grammatical impairment in nonfluent aphasia, aiding in differential diagnosis. Importantly, as non-invasive and scalable metrics, ID and GC also provide a critical complement to gold-standard but costly biomarkers like CSF and PET. Finally, the review considers the emerging role of AI and Natural Language Processing (NLP) in automating these linguistic analyses, concluding with a necessary discussion of the critical challenges in validation, ethics, and implementation that must be addressed for these technologies to be responsibly integrated into clinical practice.	Neuropathology Research, Biomedical Research Institute of New Jersey (BRInj), 140 East Hanover Avenue, Cedar Knolls, NJ 07927, USA	10.3390/brainsci15091022	2025	15	9	-	-	1022	-
Ferrari, Irene; Limiti, Emanuele; Giannitelli, Sara; Trombetta, Marcella; Rainer, Alberto; D’Amelio, Marcello; La Barbera, Livia; Gori, Manuele	Microfluidic-Based Technologies for Crossing the Blood–Brain Barrier Against Alzheimer’s Disease: Novel Strategies and Challenges	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; blood-brain barrier; microfluidics; nanoparticles; organs-on-chips	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) represents the major cause of dementia worldwide, involving different etiopathogenetic mechanisms, but with no definitive cure. The efficacy of new AD drugs is limited by the multifactorial disease nature that involves several targets, but also by the difficult penetration across the blood–brain barrier (BBB) for reaching the target area at therapeutic doses. Thus, the inability of many compounds to efficiently bypass the BBB makes it arduous to treat the disease. Furthermore, the lack of more representative BBB in vitro models than conventional 2D cultures, and xenogeneic animal models that recapitulate AD pathogenesis, makes it even more difficult to develop definitive cures. In this context, microfluidics has emerged as a promising tool, offering advanced strategies for simulating the BBB, investigating its crossing mechanisms, and developing nanocarriers that successfully pass the BBB for brain-targeting, with particular interest in pathological states. The advantages of microfluidic platforms for studying the BBB role in pathophysiological conditions might herald more tailored and effective approaches based on functionalized nanosystems for treating AD. Here, we provide an overview of the latest advances in microfluidic-based technologies both for the synthesis of nanodrug delivery systems, and for developing advanced models of the BBB-on-a-chip to simulate this biological barrier, facing open challenges in AD, and improving our understanding of the disease.	Molecular Neuroscience Unit, Università Campus Bio-Medico di Roma, 00128 Rome, Italy	10.3390/ijms26199478	2025	26	19	-	-	9478	-
