AUTHOR	TITLE	JOURNAL	LANGUANGE	DOCTYPE	KEYWORDS	ABSTRACT	AFFILIATION	DOI	PUBYEAR	PUBVOL	PUBISSUE	FPAGE	LPAGE	ARTNUMBER	PAGENUM
Bailey, Jessica; Pericak-Vance, Margaret; Haines, Jonathan	The Impact of the Human Genome Project on Complex Disease	Genes	EN	Review	human genome project; age-related macular degeneration; Alzheimer’s disease; multiple sclerosis; genetics; genomics; genome-wide association study	In the decade that has passed since the initial release of the Human Genome, numerous advancements in science and technology within and beyond genetics and genomics have been encouraged and enhanced by the availability of this vast and remarkable data resource. Progress in understanding three common, complex diseases: age-related macular degeneration (AMD), Alzheimer’s disease (AD), and multiple sclerosis (MS), are three exemplars of the incredible impact on the elucidation of the genetic architecture of disease. The approaches used in these diseases have been successfully applied to numerous other complex diseases. For example, the heritability of AMD was confirmed upon the release of the first genome-wide association study (GWAS) along with confirmatory reports that supported the findings of that state-of-the art method, thus setting the foundation for future GWAS in other heritable diseases. Following this seminal discovery and applying it to other diseases including AD and MS, the genetic knowledge of AD expanded far beyond the well-known APOE locus and now includes more than 20 loci. MS genetics saw a similar increase beyond the HLA loci and now has more than 100 known risk loci. Ongoing and future efforts will seek to define the remaining heritability of these diseases; the next decade could very well hold the key to attaining this goal.	Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Case Western Reserve University Medical Center, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA	10.3390/genes5030518	2014	5	3	-	-	518	18
Freude, Kristine; Pires, Carlota; Hyttel, Poul; Hall, Vanessa	Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells Derived from Alzheimer’s Disease Patients: The Promise, the Hope and the Path Ahead	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Review	induced pluripotent stem cells; Alzheimer’s disease; disease modeling; human	The future hope of generated induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) from Alzheimer’s disease patients is multifold. Firstly, they may help to uncover novel mechanisms of the disease, which could lead to the development of new and unprecedented drugs for patients and secondly, they could also be directly used for screening and testing of potential new compounds for drug discovery. In addition, in the case of familial known mutations, these cells could be targeted by use of advanced gene-editing techniques to correct the mutation and be used for future cell transplantation therapies. This review summarizes the work so far in regards to production and characterization of iPS cell lines from both sporadic and familial Alzheimer’s patients and from other iPS cell lines that may help to model the disease. It provides a detailed comparison between published reports and states the present hurdles we face with this new technology. The promise of new gene-editing techniques and accelerated aging models also aim to move this field further by providing better control cell lines for comparisons and potentially better phenotypes, respectively.	Department of Veterinary Clinical and Animal Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Gronnegaardsvej 7, Frederiksberg C DK-1870, Denmark	10.3390/jcm3041402	2014	3	4	-	-	1402	35
Ghafar-Zadeh, Ebrahim	Wireless Integrated Biosensors for Point-of-Care Diagnostic Applications	Sensors	EN	Review	CMOS; point-of-care (POC); wireless biosensors (WBS); integrated electrochemical sensors	Recent advances in integrated biosensors, wireless communication and power harvesting techniques are enticing researchers into spawning a new breed of point-of-care (POC) diagnostic devices that have attracted significant interest from industry. Among these, it is the ones equipped with wireless capabilities that drew our attention in this review paper. Indeed, wireless POC devices offer a great advantage, that of the possibility of exerting continuous monitoring of biologically relevant parameters, metabolites and other bio-molecules, relevant to the management of various morbid diseases such as diabetes, brain cancer, ischemia, and Alzheimer’s. In this review paper, we examine three major categories of miniaturized integrated devices, namely; the implantable Wireless Bio-Sensors (WBSs), the wearable WBSs and the handheld WBSs. In practice, despite the aforesaid progress made in developing wireless platforms, early detection of health imbalances remains a grand challenge from both the technological and the medical points of view. This paper addresses such challenges and reports the state-of-the-art in this interdisciplinary field.	Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, Lassonde School of Engineering,  York University, Toronto, ON M3J1P3, Canada	10.3390/s150203236	2015	15	2	-	-	3236	26
Skalova, Stepanka; Svadlakova, Tereza; Qureshi, Wasay; Dev, Kapil; Mokry, Jaroslav	Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells and Their Use in Cardiac and Neural Regenerative Medicine	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	iPS cells; cell reprogramming; directed differentiation; Parkinson’s disease; Alzheimer’s disease; Huntington’s disease	Stem cells are unique pools of cells that are crucial for embryonic development and maintenance of adult tissue homeostasis. The landmark Nobel Prize winning research by Yamanaka and colleagues to induce pluripotency in somatic cells has reshaped the field of stem cell research. The complications related to the usage of pluripotent embryonic stem cells (ESCs) in human medicine, particularly ESC isolation and histoincompatibility were bypassed with induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology. The human iPSCs can be used for studying embryogenesis, disease modeling, drug testing and regenerative medicine. iPSCs can be diverted to different cell lineages using small molecules and growth factors. In this review we have focused on iPSC differentiation towards cardiac and neuronal lineages. Moreover, we deal with the use of iPSCs in regenerative medicine and modeling diseases like myocardial infarction, Timothy syndrome, dilated cardiomyopathy, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s and Huntington’s disease. Despite the promising potential of iPSCs, genome contamination and low efficacy of cell reprogramming remain significant challenges.	Department of Histology and Embryology, Medical Faculty in Hradec Kralove,  Charles University in Prague, Simkova 870, Hradec Kralove 50038, Czech Republic	10.3390/ijms16024043	2015	16	2	-	-	4043	25
Seo, Dongmin; Lee, Min-Ho; Yu, Seok	Development of Network Analysis and Visualization System for KEGG Pathways	Symmetry	EN	Article	network analysis; network cluster; network visualization; KEGG pathway; bioinformatics	Big data refers to informationalization technology for extracting valuable information through the use and analysis of large-scale data and, based on that data, deriving plans for response or predicting changes. With the development of software and devices for next generation sequencing, a vast amount of bioinformatics data has been generated recently. Also, bioinformatics data based big-data technology is rising rapidly as a core technology by the bioinformatician, biologist and big-data scientist. KEGG pathway is bioinformatics data for understanding high-level functions and utilities of the biological system. However, KEGG pathway analysis requires a lot of time and effort because KEGG pathways are high volume and very diverse. In this paper, we proposed a network analysis and visualization system that crawl user interest KEGG pathways, construct a pathway network based on a hierarchy structure of pathways and visualize relations and interactions of pathways by clustering and selecting core pathways from the network. Finally, we construct a pathway network collected by starting with an Alzheimer’s disease pathway and show the results on clustering and selecting core pathways from the pathway network.	Department of Biomedical Convergence Technology, Korea Institute of Science and Technology Information, Daejeon 305-806, Korea	10.3390/sym7031275	2015	7	3	-	-	1275	14
Hofmann-Apitius, Martin; Ball, Gordon; Gebel, Stephan; Bagewadi, Shweta; De Bono, Bernard; Schneider, Reinhard; Page, Matt; Kodamullil, Alpha; Younesi, Erfan; Ebeling, Christian; Tegnér, Jesper; Canard, Luc	Bioinformatics Mining and Modeling Methods for the Identification of Disease Mechanisms in Neurodegenerative Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	mechanism-identification; bioinformatics; genetics; graphical models; knowledge-based modeling; multiscale; neurodegeneration; data integration; disease models	Since the decoding of the Human Genome, techniques from bioinformatics, statistics, and machine learning have been instrumental in uncovering patterns in increasing amounts and types of different data produced by technical profiling technologies applied to clinical samples, animal models, and cellular systems. Yet, progress on unravelling biological mechanisms, causally driving diseases, has been limited, in part due to the inherent complexity of biological systems. Whereas we have witnessed progress in the areas of cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, the area of neurodegenerative diseases has proved to be very challenging. This is in part because the aetiology of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer´s disease or Parkinson´s disease is unknown, rendering it very difficult to discern early causal events. Here we describe a panel of bioinformatics and modeling approaches that have recently been developed to identify candidate mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases based on publicly available data and knowledge. We identify two complementary strategies—data mining techniques using genetic data as a starting point to be further enriched using other data-types, or alternatively to encode prior knowledge about disease mechanisms in a model based framework supporting reasoning and enrichment analysis. Our review illustrates the challenges entailed in integrating heterogeneous, multiscale and multimodal information in the area of neurology in general and neurodegeneration in particular. We conclude, that progress would be accelerated by increasing efforts on performing systematic collection of multiple data-types over time from each individual suffering from neurodegenerative disease. The work presented here has been driven by project AETIONOMY; a project funded in the course of the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI); which is a public-private partnership of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Associations (EFPIA) and the European Commission (EC).	Department of Bioinformatics, Fraunhofer Institute for Algorithms and Scientific Computing (SCAI), Institutszentrum Birlinghoven, Sankt Augustin D-53754, Germany	10.3390/ijms161226148	2015	16	12	-	-	26148	-
Hédou, Damien; Godeau, Julien; Loaëc, Nadège; Meijer, Laurent; Fruit, Corinne; Besson, Thierry	Synthesis of Thiazolo[5,4-f]quinazolin-9(8H)-ones as Multi-Target Directed Ligands of Ser/Thr Kinases	Molecules	EN	Article	thiazolo[5,4-f]quinazolin-9(8H)-ones; multi-target-directed ligand; protein kinases; microwave-assisted synthesis; CDK5; GSK-3; CLK1; CK1; DYRK1A.	A library of thirty novel thiazolo[5,4-f]quinazolin-9(8H)-one derivatives belonging to four series designated as 12, 13, 14 and 15 was efficiently prepared, helped by microwave-assisted technology when required. The efficient multistep synthesis of methyl 6-amino-2-cyano- benzo[d]thiazole-7-carboxylate (1) has been reinvestigated and performed on a multigram scale. The inhibitory potency of the final products against five kinases involved in Alzheimer’s disease was evaluated. This study demonstrates that some molecules of the 12 and 13 series described in this paper are particularly promising for the development of new multi-target inhibitors of kinases.	Normandie Univ; Uni Rouen; INSA; CNRS, COBRA, UMR 6014, 76000 Rouen, France	10.3390/molecules21050578	2016	21	5	-	-	578	-
Hédou, Damien; Dubouilh-Benard, Carole; Loaëc, Nadège; Meijer, Laurent; Fruit, Corinne; Besson, Thierry	Synthesis of Bioactive 2-(Arylamino)thiazolo[5,4-f]-quinazolin-9-ones via the Hügershoff Reaction or Cu- Catalyzed Intramolecular C-S Bond Formation	Molecules	EN	Article	Hügershoff reaction; thiazolo[5,4-f]quinazolin-9(8H)-ones; microwave-assisted synthesis; protein kinases; CDK5; GSK-3; CLK1; CK1; DYRK1A	A library of thirty eight novel thiazolo[5,4-f]quinazolin-9(8H)-one derivatives (series 8, 10, 14 and 17) was prepared via the Hügershoff reaction and a Cu catalyzed intramolecular C-S bond formation, helped by microwave-assisted technology when required. The efficient multistep synthesis of the key 6-amino-3-cyclopropylquinazolin-4(3H)-one (3) has been reinvestigated and performed on a multigram scale from the starting 5-nitroanthranilic acid. The inhibitory potency of the final products was evaluated against five kinases involved in Alzheimer’s disease and showed that some molecules of the 17 series described in this paper are particularly promising for the development of novel multi-target inhibitors of kinases.	Normandie Univ, UNIROUEN, INSA Rouen, CNRS, COBRA, 76000 Rouen, France	10.3390/molecules21060794	2016	21	6	-	-	794	-
Zhao, Yuhai; Alexandrov, Peter; Jaber, Vivian; Lukiw, Walter	Deficiency in the Ubiquitin Conjugating Enzyme UBE2A in Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) is Linked to Deficits in a Natural Circular miRNA-7 Sponge (circRNA; ciRS-7)	Genes	EN	Communication	Alzheimer’s disease (AD); circular RNA (circRNA); genetic control; miRNA-7; proteasome; proteolysis; ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2A (UBE2A)	Our understanding of the highly specialized functions for small non-coding single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) in the transcriptome of the human central nervous system (CNS) continues to evolve. Circular RNAs (circRNAs), a recently discovered class of ssRNA enriched in the brain and retina, are extremely stable and intrinsically resilient to degradation by exonuclease. Conventional methods of ssRNA, microRNA (miRNA), or messenger RNA (mRNA) detection and quantitation requiring free ribonucleotide ends may have considerably underestimated the quantity and significance of CNS circRNA in the CNS. Highly-specific small ssRNAs, such as the ~23 nucleotide (nt) Homo sapien microRNA-7 (hsa-miRNA-7; chr 9q21.32), are not only abundant in the human limbic system but are, in addition, associated with a ~1400 nt circRNA for miRNA-7 (ciRS-7) in the same anatomical region. Structurally, ciRS-7 contains about ~70 tandem anti-miRNA-7 sequences and acts as an endogenous, anti-complementary miRNA-7 “sponge” that attracts, binds, and, hence, quenches, natural miRNA-7 functions. Using a combination of DNA and miRNA array technologies, enhanced LED-Northern and Western blot hybridization, and the magnesium-dependent exoribonuclease and circRNA-sensitive probe RNaseR, here we provide evidence of a significantly misregulated ciRS-7-miRNA-7-UBE2A circuit in sporadic Alzheimer’s disease (AD) neocortex (Brodmann A22) and hippocampal CA1. Deficits in ciRS-7-mediated “sponging events”, resulting in excess ambient miRNA-7 appear to drive the selective down-regulation in the expression of miRNA-7-sensitive mRNA targets, such as that encoding the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2A (UBE2A; chr Xq24). UBE2A, which normally serves as a central effector in the ubiquitin-26S proteasome system, coordinates the clearance of amyloid peptides via proteolysis, is known to be depleted in sporadic AD brain and, hence, contributes to amyloid accumulation and the formation of senile plaque deposits. Dysfunction of circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory systems appears to represent another important layer of epigenetic control over pathogenic gene expression programs in the human CNS that are targeted by the sporadic AD process.	LSU Neuroscience Center, Louisiana State University Health Science Center, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA	10.3390/genes7120116	2016	7	12	-	-	116	-
De Filippis, Maria; Craven, Michael; Dening, Tom	Preferences of Informal Carers on Technology Packages to Support Meal Production by People Living with Dementia, Elicited from Personalised AT and ICT Product Brochures	Informatics	EN	Article	smart health; ambient assisted living; healthcare technology assessment; dementia; assistive technology; healthcare ICT; safety	Assistive technology (AT) can help support the continued independence of people living with dementia, supported by informal carers. Opinions and preferences of informal carers towards a range of assistive and digital information and communication technologies (ICT) to support food purchase and menu selection, including navigation and online shopping, and safe meal-making by individuals living with dementia were investigated. General attitudes and experiences with assistive technologies were first probed by means of a focus group with carers (n = 6), organised through the Alzheimer’s Society in Nottingham, England. A series of AT/ICT product brochures were then produced, describing packages of technologies to enable meal production. Task-specific questions were asked of carers (n = 10) at local Memory Cafés as to the perceived capabilities of each individual for shopping and meal-making. Carers were asked to make pair-wise choices in order to select a personalised brochure and to complete a questionnaire to elicit the practicality, desirability and affordability of specific products and to probe for preferences amongst key features. Opinions on ease-of-use, aesthetics, expected safety-in-use, independence of use and stigma related to the technology packages were also collected. Results showed that carers are able to make detailed choices and express preferences about assistive and digital technologies for the individuals in their care, and customise their enabler package. Most believed that having an enabler package would improve safety. Greater exposure of carers to newer digital products would be beneficial. The brochure method could be employed on consumer websites and by AT assessors.	Division of Psychiatry and Applied Psychology, School of Medicine, The University of Nottingham, Jubilee Campus, Nottingham NG7 2TU, UK	10.3390/informatics4010001	2017	4	1	-	-	1	-
Cervantes, Breana; Ulatowski, Lynn	Vitamin E and Alzheimer’s Disease—Is It Time for Personalized Medicine?	Antioxidants	EN	Review	vitamin E; oxidative stress; Alzheimer’s disease; SNPs; personalized medicine	For the last two decades, it has been hotly debated whether vitamin E—the major lipid-soluble antioxidant, which functions to maintain neurological integrity—is efficacious as a therapy for Alzheimer’s disease. Several factors key to the debate, include (1) which of the eight naturally-occurring vitamin E forms should be used; (2) how combination treatments affect vitamin E efficacy; and (3) safety concerns that most-recently resurfaced after the results of the Selenium and vitamin E Cancer prevention trial SELECT prostate cancer trial. However, with the advent of new genetic technologies and identifications of vitamin E-modulating single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), we propose that clinical trials addressing the question “Is vitamin E an effective treatment for Alzheimer’s disease” should consider a more focused and personalized medicine approach to designing experiments. An individual’s naturally-occurring SNP variants may indeed influence vitamin E’s therapeutic effect on Alzheimer’s disease.	Ursuline College, Pepper Pike, OH 44121, USA	10.3390/antiox6030045	2017	6	3	-	-	45	-
Kreowski, Hans-Jörg	Transhumanism and Nanotechnology—Will Old Myths Come True?	Proceedings	EN	Proceeding Paper	transhumanism; nanotechnology; mythology	A major goal of transhumanism is the transformation of human beings into posthuman ones by exploiting present and emerging technologies. Nanotechnology is considered as a promising candidate in this respect. Its objects of interest are molecular structures with their surface properties and their specific design as sensors and actuators in various environments including the human blood circulation, lung, brain, etc. In the mythologies all over the world one encounters the idea of super-natural strength, invulnerability, eternal youth, invisibility, invincibility, and immortality. Some proponents of transhumanism dream of a future in which all this will come true. And there are leading experts in nanotechnology who formulate quite similar aims and objectives of their area: the obligatory victory over Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease, cleansing of wounds, blood, lung, brain enhancement, soldiers who fight without fear, managers who need no sleep to be able to work 24 h a day 7 days a week for their companies, magic hoods, and much more. In the presentation, I discussed the relation between transhumanism and nanotechnology and compile some reasons why old myths will not come true.	Computer Science Department, University of Bremen, P.O. Box 330440, 28334 Bremen, Germany	10.3390/IS4SI-2017-03965	2017	1	3	-	-	243	-
Chui, Kwok; Alhalabi, Wadee; Pang, Sally; Pablos, Patricia; Liu, Ryan; Zhao, Mingbo	Disease Diagnosis in Smart Healthcare: Innovation, Technologies and Applications	Sustainability	EN	Review	automation; computational intelligence; data analysis; data mining; disease diagnosis; healthcare; smart living; smart city; social progress; sustainability	To promote sustainable development, the smart city implies a global vision that merges artificial intelligence, big data, decision making, information and communication technology (ICT), and the internet-of-things (IoT). The ageing issue is an aspect that researchers, companies and government should devote efforts in developing smart healthcare innovative technology and applications. In this paper, the topic of disease diagnosis in smart healthcare is reviewed. Typical emerging optimization algorithms and machine learning algorithms are summarized. Evolutionary optimization, stochastic optimization and combinatorial optimization are covered. Owning to the fact that there are plenty of applications in healthcare, four applications in the field of diseases diagnosis (which also list in the top 10 causes of global death in 2015), namely cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia, and tuberculosis, are considered. In addition, challenges in the deployment of disease diagnosis in healthcare have been discussed.	Department of Electronic Engineering, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China	10.3390/su9122309	2017	9	12	-	-	2309	-
Keeling, Eloise; Lotery, Andrew; Tumbarello, David; Ratnayaka, J.	Impaired Cargo Clearance in the Retinal Pigment Epithelium (RPE) Underlies Irreversible Blinding Diseases	Cells	EN	Review	Retinal Pigment Epithelium (RPE); endosomes; phagosomes; lysosomes; autophagy; RPE cultures; Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD)	Chronic degeneration of the Retinal Pigment Epithelium (RPE) is a precursor to pathological changes in the outer retina. The RPE monolayer, which lies beneath the neuroretina, daily internalises and digests large volumes of spent photoreceptor outer segments. Impaired cargo handling and processing in the endocytic/phagosome and autophagy pathways lead to the accumulation of lipofuscin and pyridinium bis-retinoid A2E aggregates and chemically modified compounds such as malondialdehyde and 4-hydroxynonenal within RPE. These contribute to increased proteolytic and oxidative stress, resulting in irreversible damage to post-mitotic RPE cells and development of blinding conditions such as age-related macular degeneration, Stargardt disease and choroideremia. Here, we review how impaired cargo handling in the RPE results in their dysfunction, discuss new findings from our laboratory and consider how newly discovered roles for lysosomes and the autophagy pathway could provide insights into retinopathies. Studies of these dynamic, molecular events have also been spurred on by recent advances in optics and imaging technology. Mechanisms underpinning lysosomal impairment in other degenerative conditions including storage disorders, α-synuclein pathologies and Alzheimer’s disease are also discussed. Collectively, these findings help transcend conventional understanding of these intracellular compartments as simple waste disposal bags to bring about a paradigm shift in the way lysosomes are perceived.	Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, MP806, Tremona Road, Southampton SO16 6YD, UK	10.3390/cells7020016	2018	7	2	-	-	16	-
Robinson-Agramonte, María; Pedre, Lourdes; Serrano-Barrera, Orlando	Neuroimmunology Research. A Report from the Cuban Network of Neuroimmunology	Behavioral Sciences	EN	Conference Report	neuroimmunology; neurodevelopmental disorders; neurodegenerative disorders; non-invasive brain stimulation; Alzheimer disease’s; Parkinson’s disease; autism; demyelinating disease; neuropsychology; ataxy	Neuroimmunology can be traced back to the XIX century through the descriptions of some of the disease’s models (e.g., multiple sclerosis and Guillain Barret syndrome, amongst others). The diagnostic tools are based in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis developed by Quincke or in the development of neuroimmunotherapy with the earlier expression in Pasteur’s vaccine for rabies. Nevertheless, this field, which began to become delineated as an independent research area in the 1940s, has evolved as an innovative and integrative field at the shared edges of neurosciences, immunology, and related clinical and research areas, which are currently becoming a major concern for neuroscience and indeed for all of the scientific community linked to it. The workshop focused on several topics: (1) the molecular mechanisms of immunoregulation in health and neurological diseases, (like multiple sclerosis, autism, ataxias, epilepsy, Alzheimer and Parkinson’s disease); (2) the use of animal models for neurodegenerative diseases (ataxia, fronto-temporal dementia/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ataxia-telangiectasia); (3) the results of new interventional technologies in neurology, with a special interest in the implementation of surgical techniques and the management of drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy; (4) the use of non-invasive brain stimulation in neurodevelopmental disorders; as well as (5) the efficacy of neuroprotective molecules in neurodegenerative diseases. This paper summarizes the highlights of the symposium.	Neuroimmunology Laboratory, Immunochemical Department, International Center for Neurological Restoration, Ave 25 # 15805 b/w 158 and 160, Playa, Havana 11300, Cuba	10.3390/bs8050047	2018	8	5	-	-	47	-
Liu, Jingjing; Yang, Lingling; Dong, Yanhong; Zhang, Bo; Ma, Xueqin	Echinacoside, an Inestimable Natural Product in Treatment of Neurological and other Disorders	Molecules	EN	Review	echinacoside; preparation; pharmacokinetics; Parkinson’s disease; Alzheimer’s disease	Echinacoside (ECH), a natural phenylethanoid glycoside, was first isolated from Echinacea angustifolia DC. (Compositae) sixty years ago. It was found to possess numerous pharmacologically beneficial activities for human health, especially the neuroprotective and cardiovascular effects. Although ECH showed promising potential for treatment of Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s diseases, some important issues arose. These included the identification of active metabolites as having poor bioavailability in prototype form, the definite molecular signal pathways or targets of ECH with the above effects, and limited reliable clinical trials. Thus, it remains unresolved as to whether scientific research can reasonably make use of this natural compound. A systematic summary and knowledge of future prospects are necessary to facilitate further studies for this natural product. The present review generalizes and analyzes the current knowledge on ECH, including its broad distribution, different preparation technologies, poor pharmacokinetics and kinds of therapeutic uses, and the future perspectives of its potential application.	Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, School of Pharmacy, Ningxia Medical University, 1160 Shenli Street, Yinchuan 750004, China	10.3390/molecules23051213	2018	23	5	-	-	1213	-
Lin, You-Wei; Lin, Chi-Yi	An Interactive Real-Time Locating System Based on Bluetooth Low-Energy Beacon Network †	Sensors	EN	Article	Bluetooth low energy; location-based service; mesh network; internet of things	The ubiquity of Bluetooth-enabled smartphones and peripherals has brought tremendous convenience to our daily life. In recent years, Bluetooth beacons have also been gaining popularity in implementing a variety of innovative location-based services such as self-guided systems in exhibition centers. However, the broadcast-based beacon technology can only provide unidirectional communication. In case smartphone users would like to respond to the beacon messages, they have to rely on their own mobile Internet connections to send the information back to the backend system. Nevertheless, mobile Internet services may not be always available or too costly. In this work, we develop a real-time locating system based only on the Bluetooth low energy (BLE) technology to support interactive communications by combining the broadcast and mesh topology options to extend the applicability of beacon solutions. Specifically, we turn the smartphone into a beacon device and augment the beacon devices with the capability of forming a mesh network. The implementation result shows that our beacon devices can detect the presence of specific users at specific locations, and then the presence state can be sent to the application server via the relay of beacon devices. Moreover, the application server can send personalized location-based messages to the users, again via the relay of beacon devices. With the capability of relaying messages between the beacon devices, it would be convenient for developers to implement a variety of interactive applications such as tracking VIP customers at the airport, or tracking an elder with Alzheimer’s disease in the neighborhood.	Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Tamkang University, New Taipei City 25137, Taiwan	10.3390/s18051637	2018	18	5	-	-	1637	-
Castillo, Noelia; Pérez, Juan; Gómez-Sanz, Jorge	A Computational Approach to Improve the Gathering of Ambient Assisted Living Requirements	Proceedings	EN	Proceeding Paper	Ambient Intelligence; requirements	Recent publications focus on the importance of designing an Ambient Intelligence that can be sensitive to human values and responsible for its societal impact. Obtaining and properly modeling these requirements can be a challenging task. Co-creation and social sciences methods are frequently applied in order to discover what end-users need using methods such as field/case studies where interviews or focus group sessions are conducted. However, those methods can be limited. This paper introduces two complementary approaches, one using traditional semi-structured and in-depth interviews, and another one based on 3D simulation modeling. The context is a research project where interviews were conducted to caregivers of people with Alzheimer disease. When designing the solution, it is important to account what kind of technology the end-users are expecting and what scenarios need to be accounted. So, the paper first summarizes what technology this collective is seeking or willing to accept. Then it proceeds with a brief summary of one of the interviews. Following, it shows the process of transferring this information to actual 3D simulations and discusses the benefits of doing so in the context of Ambient Assisted Living.	Dep. Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence, Complutense University of Madrid, 28040 Madrid, Spain	10.3390/proceedings2191246	2018	2	19	-	-	1246	-
Rebholz, Heike; Friedman, Eitan; Castello, Julia	Alterations of Expression of the Serotonin 5-HT4 Receptor in Brain Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	serotonin; 5-HT 4 receptor; 5-HT4R; depression; mood disorder; expression; Alzheimer’s disease; cognition; Parkinson’s disease	The serotonin 4 receptor, 5-HT4R, represents one of seven different serotonin receptor families and is implicated in a variety of physiological functions and their pathophysiological variants, such as mood and depression or anxiety, food intake and obesity or anorexia, or memory and memory loss in Alzheimer’s disease. Its central nervous system expression pattern in the forebrain, in particular in caudate putamen, the hippocampus and to lesser extent in the cortex, predispose it for a role in executive function and reward-related actions. In rodents, regional overexpression or knockdown in the prefrontal cortex or the nucleus accumbens of 5-HT4R was shown to impact mood and depression-like phenotypes, food intake and hypophagia; however, whether expression changes are causally involved in the etiology of such disorders is not clear. In this context, more data are emerging, especially based on PET technology and the use of ligand tracers that demonstrate altered 5-HT4R expression in brain disorders in humans, confirming data stemming from post-mortem tissue and preclinical animal models. In this review, we would like to present the current knowledge of 5-HT4R expression in brain regions relevant to mood/depression, reward and executive function with a focus on 5-HT4R expression changes in brain disorders or caused by drug treatment, at both the transcript and protein levels.	Department of Molecular, Cellular and Biomedical Sciences, CUNY School of Medicine, New York, NY 10031, USA	10.3390/ijms19113581	2018	19	11	-	-	3581	-
Xu, Lei; Liang, Guangmin; Liao, Changrui; Chen, Gin-Den; Chang, Chi-Chang	An Efficient Classifier for Alzheimer’s Disease Genes Identification	Molecules	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; gene coding protein; sequence information; support vector machine; classification	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is considered to one of 10 key diseases leading to death in humans. AD is considered the main cause of brain degeneration, and will lead to dementia. It is beneficial for affected patients to be diagnosed with the disease at an early stage so that efforts to manage the patient can begin as soon as possible. Most existing protocols diagnose AD by way of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, because the size of the images produced is large, existing techniques that employ MRI technology are expensive and time-consuming to perform. With this in mind, in the current study, AD is predicted instead by the use of a support vector machine (SVM) method based on gene-coding protein sequence information. In our proposed method, the frequency of two consecutive amino acids is used to describe the sequence information. The accuracy of the proposed method for identifying AD is 85.7%, which is demonstrated by the obtained experimental results. The experimental results also show that the sequence information of gene-coding proteins can be used to predict AD.	School of Electronic and Communication Engineering, Shenzhen Polytechnic, Shenzhen 518055, China	10.3390/molecules23123140	2018	23	12	-	-	3140	-
Czarnecka, Kamila; Girek, Małgorzata; Kręcisz, Paweł; Skibiński, Robert; Łątka, Kamil; Jończyk, Jakub; Bajda, Marek; Kabziński, Jacek; Majsterek, Ireneusz; Szymczyk, Piotr; Szymański, Paweł	Discovery of New Cyclopentaquinoline Analogues as Multifunctional Agents for the Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	acetylcholinesterase inhibitors; Alzheimer’s disease; molecular modeling; beta amyloid; yeast three-hybrid technology (Y3H) test	Here we report the two-step synthesis of 8 new cyclopentaquinoline derivatives as modifications of the tetrahydroacridine structure. Next, the biological assessment of each of them was performed. Based on the obtained results we identified 6-chloro-N-[2-(2,3-dihydro-1H-cyclopenta[b]quinolin-9-ylamino)-hexyl]]-nicotinamide hydrochloride (3e) as the most promising compound with inhibitory potencies against EeAChE and EqBuChE in the low nanomolar level 67 and 153 nM, respectively. Moreover, 3e compound is non-hepatotoxic, able to inhibit amyloid beta aggregation, and shows a mix-type of cholinesterase’s inhibition. The mixed type of inhibition of the compound was confirmed by molecular modeling. Then, yeast three-hybrid (Y3H) technology was used to confirm the known ligand-receptor interactions. New derivatives do not show antioxidant activity (confirmed by the use of two different tests). A pKa assay method was developed to identify the basic physicochemical properties of 3e compound. A LogP assay confirmed that 3e compound fulfills Lipinsky’s rule of five	Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug Analyses and Radiopharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University of Lodz, Muszyńskiego 1, 90d-151 Lodz, Poland	10.3390/ijms20030498	2019	20	3	-	-	498	-
Cabrera DeBuc, Delia; Gaca-Wysocka, Magdalena; Grzybowski, Andrzej; Kanclerz, Piotr	Identification of Retinal Biomarkers in Alzheimer’s Disease Using Optical Coherence Tomography: Recent Insights, Challenges, and Opportunities	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; central nervous system diseases; ganglion cell layer; optical coherence tomography; retinal nerve fiber layer	This review will highlight recent insights into measuring retinal structure in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). A growing body of evidence indicates that disturbances in retinal blood flow and structure are related to cognitive function, which can severely impair vision. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is an optical imaging technology that may allow researchers and physicians to gain deeper insights into retinal morphology and clarify the impact of AD on retinal health and function. Direct and noninvasive measurement of retinal morphology using OCT has provided useful diagnostic and therapeutic indications in several central nervous system (CNS) diseases, including AD, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson disease. Despite several limitations, morphology assessment in the retinal layers is a significant advancement in the understanding of ocular diseases. Nevertheless, additional studies are required to validate the use of OCT in AD and its complications in the eye.	Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, FL 33136, USA	10.3390/jcm8070996	2019	8	7	-	-	996	-
Chen, Kevin; Baluya, Dodge; Tosun, Mehmet; Li, Feng; Maletic-Savatic, Mirjana	Imaging Mass Spectrometry: A New Tool to Assess Molecular Underpinnings of Neurodegeneration	Metabolites	EN	Review	neurodegeneration; metabolomics; biomarkers; imaging mass spectrometry	Neurodegenerative diseases are prevalent and devastating. While extensive research has been done over the past decades, we are still far from comprehensively understanding what causes neurodegeneration and how we can prevent it or reverse it. Recently, systems biology approaches have led to a holistic examination of the interactions between genome, metabolome, and the environment, in order to shed new light on neurodegenerative pathogenesis. One of the new technologies that has emerged to facilitate such studies is imaging mass spectrometry (IMS). With its ability to map a wide range of small molecules with high spatial resolution, coupled with the ability to quantify them at once, without the need for a priori labeling, IMS has taken center stage in current research efforts in elucidating the role of the metabolome in driving neurodegeneration. IMS has already proven to be effective in investigating the lipidome and the proteome of various neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, Huntington’s, multiple sclerosis, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Here, we review the IMS platform for capturing biological snapshots of the metabolic state to shed more light on the molecular mechanisms of the diseased brain.	Department of Biosciences, Rice University, Houston, TX 77030, USA	10.3390/metabo9070135	2019	9	7	-	-	135	-
Ahmad, Nafees; Han, Lansheng; Iqbal, Khalid; Ahmad, Rashid; Abid, Muhammad; Iqbal, Naeem	SARM: Salah Activities Recognition Model Based on Smartphone	Electronics	EN	Article	Salah activities recognition; posture recognition; accelerometer sensor; human activity recognition; classification	Alzheimer’s is a chronic neurodegenerative disease that frequently occurs in many people today. It has a major effect on the routine activities of affected people. Previous advancement in smartphone sensors technology enables us to help people suffering from Alzheimer’s. For people in the Muslim community, where it is mandatory to offer prayers five times a day, it may mean that they are struggling in their daily life prayers due to Alzheimer’s or lack of concentration. To deal with such a problem, automated mobile sensor-based activity recognition applications can be supportive to design accurate and precise solutions with an objective to direct the Namazi (worshipper). In this paper, a Salah activities recognition model (SARM) using a mobile sensor is proposed with the aim to recognize specific activities, such as Al-Qayam (standing), Ruku (standing to bowing), and Sujud (standing to prostration). This model entails the collection of data, selection and placement of sensor, data preprocessing, segmentation, feature extraction, and classification. The proposed model will provide a stepping edge to develop an application for observing prayer. For these activities’ recognition, data sets were collected from ten subjects, and six different features sets were used to get improved results. Extensive experiments were performed to test and validate the model features to train random forest (RF), K-nearest neighbor (KNN), naive Bayes (NB), and decision tree (DT). The predicted average accuracy of RF, KNN, NB, and DT was 97%, 94%, 71.6%, and 95% respectively.	School of Computer Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China	10.3390/electronics8080881	2019	8	8	-	-	881	-
Masciadri, Andrea; Comai, Sara; Salice, Fabio	Wellness Assessment of Alzheimer’s Patients in an Instrumented Health-Care Facility	Sensors	EN	Article	quality of life; ambient assisted living; assistive technology; wellness assessment; indoor localization	Wellness assessment refers to the evaluation of physical, mental, and social well-being. This work explores the possibility of applying technological tools to assist clinicians and professionals to improve the quality of life of people through continuous monitoring of their wellness. The contribution of this paper is manifold: a coarse-grained localization system is responsible for monitoring and collecting data related to patients, while a novel wellness assessment methodology is proposed to extract quantitative indicators related to the well-being of patients from the collected data. The proposed system has been installed at “Il Paese Ritrovato", an innovative health-care facility for Alzheimer’s in Monza, Italy; first satisfactory results have been obtained, and the dataset shows great potential for several applications.	Department of Electronics Information and Bioengineering, Politecnico di Milano, Via Anzani 42, 22100 Como, Italy	10.3390/s19173658	2019	19	17	-	-	3658	-
Regan, Patricia; McClean, Paula; Smyth, Thomas; Doherty, Margaret	Early Stage Glycosylation Biomarkers in Alzheimer’s Disease	Medicines	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s; biomarker; glycosylation; Aβ; tau	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is of great cause for concern in our ageing population, which currently lacks diagnostic tools to permit accurate and timely diagnosis for affected individuals. The development of such tools could enable therapeutic interventions earlier in the disease course and thus potentially reducing the debilitating effects of AD. Glycosylation is a common, and important, post translational modification of proteins implicated in a host of disease states resulting in a complex array of glycans being incorporated into biomolecules. Recent investigations of glycan profiles, in a wide range of conditions, has been made possible due to technological advances in the field enabling accurate glycoanalyses. Amyloid beta (Aβ) peptides, tau protein, and other important proteins involved in AD pathogenesis, have altered glycosylation profiles. Crucially, these abnormalities present early in the disease state, are present in the peripheral blood, and help to distinguish AD from other dementias. This review describes the aberrant glycome in AD, focusing on proteins implicated in development and progression, and elucidates the potential of glycome aberrations as early stage biomarkers of AD.	Institute of Technology Sligo, Ash Lane, F91 YW50 Sligo, Ireland	10.3390/medicines6030092	2019	6	3	-	-	92	-
Robinson-Agramonte, Maria; Gonçalves, Carlos-Alberto; Farina de Almeida, Roberto; González Quevedo, Alina; Chow, Sandra; Velázquez Pérez, Luis; Díaz de la Fé, Amado; Sesterheim, Patricia; Souza, Diogo	Neuroinflammation and Neuromodulation in Neurological Diseases	Behavioral Sciences	EN	Brief Report	neuroimmunology; neurodevelopmental disorders; Strock neurodegenerative disorders; non-invasive brain stimulation; Demyelinating disease; SCA2 Cerebellar Ataxy; neuroimmunomodulation	Neuroimmunology is a relatively young science. This discipline has emerged today from the research field as a mature and fully developed innovative research area that integrates not only pure topics of neuroimmunology, but also expands on wider fields such as neuroplasticity, neuronal reserve and neuromodulation in association with clinical events, amongst which behavioral disorders stand out. The Cuban School of Neuroimmunology—a recent meeting that took place in Havana, Cuba—focused on topics based on the molecular mechanisms of neuroinflammation in neurological disorders involving behavioral manifestations, such as multiple sclerosis (MS), autism, cerebellar ataxias, Alzheimer´s disease and stroke among others, as well as on the use of new interventional technologies in neurology. Professor Luis Velazquez, from the Cuban Academy of Sciences, dictated an interesting lecture on Spinocerebellar ataxias, a genetic disorder where recent hypotheses related to the influence of neuroinflammation as a neurobiological factor influencing the progression of this disease have emerged. At the same time, the use of new interventional technologies in neurology was discussed, including those referring to novel disease modifying therapies in the course of MS and the use of transcranial magnetic stimulation in several neurological diseases, the latter reinforcing how interventional strategies in the form of non-invasive bran stimulation can contribute to physical rehabilitation in neurology. This paper summarizes the highlights of the most relevant topics presented during the First Cuban School of Neuroimmunology, organized by the Cuban Network of Neuroimmunology, held in June 2019.	Cuban Society of Neuroimmunology, Havana 11300, Cuba	10.3390/bs9090099	2019	9	9	-	-	99	-
Giau, Vo; Bagyinszky, Eva; Youn, Young; An, Seong; Kim, SangYun	APP, PSEN1, and PSEN2 Mutations in Asian Patients with Early-Onset Alzheimer Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; Asian; genetics; mutation; EOAD	The number of patients with Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is rapidly increasing in Asia. Mutations in the amyloid protein precursor (APP), presenilin-1 (PSEN1), and presenilin-2 (PSEN2) genes can cause autosomal dominant forms of early-onset AD (EOAD). Although these genes have been extensively studied, variant classification remains a challenge, highlighting the need to colligate mutations across populations. In this study, we performed a genetic screening for mutations in the APP, PSEN1, and PSEN2 genes in 200 clinically diagnosed EOAD patients across four Asian countries, including Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Korea, between 2009 and 2018. Thirty-two (16%) patients presented pathogenic APP, PSEN1, or PSEN2 variants; eight (25%), 19 (59%), and five (16%) of the 32 patients presented APP, PSEN1, and PSEN2 variants, respectively. Among the 21 novel and known non-synonymous variants, five APP variants were found in Korean patients and one APP variant was identified in a Thai patient with EOAD. Nine, two, and one PSEN1 mutation was found in a Korean patient, Malaysian siblings, and a Thai patient, respectively. Unlike PSEN1 mutations, PSEN2 mutations were rare in patients with EOAD; only three variants were found in Korean patients with EOAD. Comparison of AD-causative point mutations in Asian countries; our findings explained only a small fraction of patients, leaving approximately 84% (p = 0.01) of autosomal dominant pedigrees genetically unexplained. We suggest that the use of high-throughput sequencing technologies for EOAD patients can potentially improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of AD.	Graduate School of Environment Department of Industrial and Environmental Engineering, Gachon University, 1342 Sungnam-daero, Sujung-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do 461-701, Korea	10.3390/ijms20194757	2019	20	19	-	-	4757	-
Chew, Gabriel; Petretto, Enrico	Transcriptional Networks of Microglia in Alzheimer’s Disease and Insights into Pathogenesis	Genes	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; microglia; gene networks; transcriptomics; microarray; RNA-seq; single-cell RNA sequencing	Microglia, the main immune cells of the central nervous system, are increasingly implicated in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Manifold transcriptomic studies in the brain have not only highlighted microglia’s role in AD pathogenesis, but also mapped crucial pathological processes and identified new therapeutic targets. An important component of many of these transcriptomic studies is the investigation of gene expression networks in AD brain, which has provided important new insights into how coordinated gene regulatory programs in microglia (and other cell types) underlie AD pathogenesis. Given the rapid technological advancements in transcriptional profiling, spanning from microarrays to single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), tools used for mapping gene expression networks have evolved to keep pace with the unique features of each transcriptomic platform. In this article, we review the trajectory of transcriptomic network analyses in AD from brain to microglia, highlighting the corresponding methodological developments. Lastly, we discuss examples of how transcriptional network analysis provides new insights into AD mechanisms and pathogenesis.	Programme in Cardiovascular and Metabolic Disorders, Duke-NUS Medical School, 8 College Road, 69857 Singapore, Singapore	10.3390/genes10100798	2019	10	10	-	-	798	-
Yang, Kai; Isaia, Beckie; Brown, Laura; Beeby, Steve	E-Textiles for Healthy Ageing	Sensors	EN	Review	healthy ageing; e-textiles; wearable devices; disease and disability; sensors; actuators; rehabilitation	The ageing population has grown quickly in the last half century with increased longevity and declining birth rate. This presents challenges to health services and the wider society. This review paper considers different aspects (e.g., physical, mental, and social well-being) of healthy ageing and how health devices can help people to monitor health conditions, treat diseases and promote social interactions. Existing technologies for addressing non-physical (e.g., Alzheimer’s, loneliness) and physical (e.g., stroke, bedsores, and fall) related challenges are presented together with the drivers and constraints of using e-textiles for these applications. E-textiles provide a platform that enables unobtrusive and ubiquitous deployment of sensors and actuators for healthy ageing applications. However, constraints remain on battery, integration, data accuracy, manufacturing, durability, ethics/privacy issues, and regulations. These challenges can only effectively be met by interdisciplinary teams sharing expertise and methods, and involving end users and other key stakeholders at an early stage in the research.	Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK	10.3390/s19204463	2019	19	20	-	-	4463	-
Vessio, Gennaro	Dynamic Handwriting Analysis for Neurodegenerative Disease Assessment: A Literary Review	Applied Sciences	EN	Article	neurodegenerative diseases; handwriting analysis; survey	Studying the effects of neurodegeneration on handwriting has emerged as an interdisciplinary research topic and has attracted considerable interest from psychologists to neuroscientists and from physicians to computer scientists. The complexity of handwriting, in fact, appears to be sensitive to age-related impairments in cognitive functioning; thus, analyzing handwriting in elderly people may facilitate the diagnosis and monitoring of these impairments. A large body of knowledge has been collected in the last thirty years thanks to the advent of new technologies which allow researchers to investigate not only the static characteristics of handwriting but also especially the dynamic aspects of the handwriting process. The present paper aims at providing an overview of the most relevant literature investigating the application of dynamic handwriting analysis in neurodegenerative disease assessment. The focus, in particular, is on Parkinon’s disease (PD) and Alzheimer’s disease (AD), as the two most widespread neurodegenerative disorders. More specifically, the studies taken into account are grouped in accordance with three main research questions: disease insight, disease monitoring, and disease diagnosis. The net result is that dynamic handwriting analysis is a powerful, noninvasive, and low-cost tool for real-time diagnosis and follow-up of PD and AD. In conclusion of the paper, open issues still demanding further research are highlighted.	Computer Science Department, University of Bari, 70125 Bary, Italy	10.3390/app9214666	2019	9	21	-	-	4666	-
Zhou, You; Lu, Xin; Yang, Hongyu; Chen, Yao; Wang, Feng; Li, Jifu; Tang, Zhiran; Cheng, Xifei; Yang, Yingbin; Xu, Li; Xia, Qingyou	Discovery of Selective Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) Inhibitors through a Combination of Computational Studies and Biological Evaluations	Molecules	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; selective butyrylcholiesterase inhibitors; virtual screening; pharmacophore model; acetylcholinesterase; in vitro enzyme assays	As there are increased levels and activity of butyrylcholiesterase (BChE) in the late stage of Alzheimer’s disease (AD), development of selective BChE inhibitors is of vital importance. In this study, a workflow combining computational technologies and biological assays were implemented to identify selective BChE inhibitors with new chemical scaffolds. In particular, a pharmacophore model served as a 3D search query to screen three compound collections containing 3.0 million compounds. Molecular docking and cluster analysis were performed to increase the efficiency and accuracy of virtual screening. Finally, 15 compounds were retained for biological investigation. Results revealed that compounds 8 and 18 could potently and highly selectively inhibit BChE activities (IC50 values < 10 μM on human BChE, selectivity index BChE > 30). These active compounds with novel scaffolds provided us with a good starting point to further design potent and selective BChE inhibitors, which may be beneficial for the treatment of AD.	State Key Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, College of Biotechnology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China	10.3390/molecules24234217	2019	24	23	-	-	4217	-
Tamura, Hiroshi; Jozaki, Mai; Tanabe, Manabu; Shirafuta, Yuichiro; Mihara, Yumiko; Shinagawa, Masahiro; Tamura, Isao; Maekawa, Ryo; Sato, Shun; Taketani, Toshiaki; Takasaki, Akihisa; Reiter, Russel; Sugino, Norihiro	Importance of Melatonin in Assisted Reproductive Technology and Ovarian Aging	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	melatonin; ovarian aging; reactive oxygen; oxidative stress; infertility	Melatonin is probably produced in all cells but is only secreted by the pineal gland. The pineal secretion of melatonin is determined by the light–dark cycle, and it is only released at night. Melatonin regulates biological rhythms via its receptors located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus. Melatonin also has strong antioxidant activities to scavenge free radicals such as reactive oxygen species (ROS). The direct free radical scavenging actions are receptor independent. ROS play an important role in reproductive function including in the ovulatory process. However, excessive ROS can also have an adverse effect on oocytes because of oxidative stress, thereby causing infertility. It is becoming clear that melatonin is located in the ovarian follicular fluid and in the oocytes themselves, which protects these cells from oxidative damage as well as having other beneficial actions in oocyte maturation, fertilization, and embryo development. Trials on humans have investigated the improvement of outcomes of assisted reproductive technology (ART), such as in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer (IVF-ET), by way of administering melatonin to patients suffering from infertility. In addition, clinical research has examined melatonin as an anti-aging molecule via its antioxidative actions, and its relationship with the aging diseases, e.g., Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease, is also underway. Melatonin may also reduce ovarian aging, which is a major issue in assisted reproductive technology. This review explains the relationship between melatonin and human reproductive function, as well as the clinical applications expected to improve the outcomes of assisted reproductive technology such as IVF, while also discussing possibilities for melatonin in preventing ovarian aging.	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine, Minamikogushi 1-1-1, Ube 755-8505, Japan	10.3390/ijms21031135	2020	21	3	-	-	1135	-
Carlini, Valentina; Verduci, Ivan; Cianci, Francesca; Cannavale, Gaetano; Fenoglio, Chiara; Galimberti, Daniela; Mazzanti, Michele	CLIC1 Protein Accumulates in Circulating Monocyte Membrane during Neurodegeneration	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	neurodegeneration; CLIC1 protein; PBMC; monocytes; cell membrane; chloride channels	Pathologies that lead to neurodegeneration in the central nervous system (CNS) represent a major contemporary medical challenge. Neurodegenerative processes, like those that occur in Alzheimer’s disease (AD) are progressive, and at the moment, they are unstoppable. Not only is an adequate therapy missing but diagnosis is also extremely complicated. The most reliable method is the measurement of beta amyloid and tau peptides concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). However, collecting liquid samples from the CNS is an invasive procedure, thus it is not suitable for a large-scale prevention program. Ideally, blood testing is the most manageable and appropriate diagnostic procedure for a massive population screening. Recently, a few candidates, including proteins or microRNAs present in plasma/serum have been identified. The aim of the present work is to propose the chloride intracellular channel 1 (CLIC1) protein as a potential marker of neurodegenerative processes. CLIC1 protein accumulates in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and increases drastically when the CNS is in a chronic inflammatory state. In AD patients, both immunolocalization and mRNA quantification are able to show the behavior of CLIC1 during a persistent inflammatory state of the CNS. In particular, confocal microscopy analysis and electrophysiological measurements highlight the significant presence of transmembrane CLIC1 (tmCLIC1) in PBMCs from AD patients. Recent investigations suggest that tmCLIC1 has a very specific role. This provides an opportunity to use blood tests and conventional technologies to discriminate between healthy individuals and patients with ongoing neurodegenerative processes.	Dipartimento di Bioscienze, Università degli Studi di Milano, 20133 Milano, Italy	10.3390/ijms21041484	2020	21	4	-	-	1484	-
Pilozzi, Alexander; Huang, Xudong	Overcoming Alzheimer’s Disease Stigma by Leveraging Artificial Intelligence and Blockchain Technologies	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; artificial intelligence; natural language processing; sentiment analysis; social media; blockchain; stigma	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) imposes a considerable burden on those diagnosed. Faced with a neurodegenerative decline for which there is no effective cure or prevention method, sufferers of the disease are subject to judgement, both self-imposed and otherwise, that can have a great deal of effect on their lives. The burden of this stigma is more than just psychological, as reluctance to face an AD diagnosis can lead people to avoid early diagnosis, treatment, and research opportunities that may be beneficial to them, and that may help progress towards fighting AD and its progression. In this review, we discuss how recent advents in information technology may be employed to help fight this stigma. Using artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, specifically natural language processing (NLP), to classify the sentiment and tone of texts, such as those of online posts on various social media sites, has proven to be an effective tool for assessing the opinions of the general public on certain topics. These tools can be used to analyze the public stigma surrounding AD. Additionally, there is much concern among individuals that an AD diagnosis, or evidence of pre-clinical AD such as a biomarker or imaging test results, may wind up unintentionally disclosed to an entity that may discriminate against them. The lackluster security record of many medical institutions justifies this fear to an extent. Adopting more secure and decentralized methods of data transfer and storage, and giving patients enhanced ability to control their own data, such as a blockchain-based method, may help to alleviate some of these fears.	Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA 02129, USA	10.3390/brainsci10030183	2020	10	3	-	-	183	-
Gan, Chen-Ling; Zhang, Tao; Lee, Tae	The Genetics of Alzheimer’s Disease in the Chinese Population	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; amyloid precursor protein; presenilin; apolipoprotein E; Chinese population	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive cognitive dysfunction and behavioral impairment. In China, the number of AD patients is growing rapidly, which poses a considerable burden on society and families. In recent years, through the advancement of genome-wide association studies, second-generation gene sequencing technology, and their application in AD genetic research, more genetic loci associated with the risk for AD have been discovered, including KCNJ15, TREM2, and GCH1, which provides new ideas for the etiology and treatment of AD. This review summarizes three early-onset AD causative genes (APP, PSEN1, and PSEN2) and some late-onset AD susceptibility genes and their mutation sites newly discovered in China, and briefly introduces the potential mechanisms of these genetic susceptibilities in the pathogenesis of AD, which would help in understanding the genetic mechanisms underlying this devastating disease.	Fujian Key Laboratory for Translational Research in Cancer and Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute for Translational Medicine, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou 350122, China	10.3390/ijms21072381	2020	21	7	-	-	2381	-
Chang, Chia-Yu; Ting, Hsiao-Chien; Liu, Ching-Ann; Su, Hong-Lin; Chiou, Tzyy-Wen; Lin, Shinn-Zong; Harn, Horng-Jyh; Ho, Tsung-Jung	Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell (iPSC)-Based Neurodegenerative Disease Models for Phenotype Recapitulation and Drug Screening	Molecules	EN	Review	iPSC; neurodegenerative diseases; drug screening	Neurodegenerative diseases represent a significant unmet medical need in our aging society. There are no effective treatments for most of these diseases, and we know comparatively little regarding pathogenic mechanisms. Among the challenges faced by those involved in developing therapeutic drugs for neurodegenerative diseases, the syndromes are often complex, and small animal models do not fully recapitulate the unique features of the human nervous system. Human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are a novel technology that ideally would permit us to generate neuronal cells from individual patients, thereby eliminating the problem of species-specificity inherent when using animal models. Specific phenotypes of iPSC-derived cells may permit researchers to identify sub-types and to distinguish among unique clusters and groups. Recently, iPSCs were used for drug screening and testing for neurologic disorders including Alzheimer’s disease (AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), spinocerebellar atrophy (SCA), and Zika virus infection. However, there remain many challenges still ahead, including how one might effectively recapitulate sporadic disease phenotypes and the selection of ideal phenotypes and for large-scale drug screening. Fortunately, quite a few novel strategies have been developed that might be combined with an iPSC-based model to solve these challenges, including organoid technology, single-cell RNA sequencing, genome editing, and deep learning artificial intelligence. Here, we will review current applications and potential future directions for iPSC-based neurodegenerative disease models for critical drug screening.	Bioinnovation Center, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, Hualien 970, Taiwan	10.3390/molecules25082000	2020	25	8	-	-	2000	-
Chen, Pei-Jarn; Yang, Szu-Yueh; Wang, Chung-Sheng; Muslikhin, Muslikhin; Wang, Ming-Shyan	Development of a Chinese Chess Robotic System for the Elderly Using Convolutional Neural Networks	Sustainability	EN	Article	Chinese robotic chess system; convolutional neural network; dementia; forward and inverse kinematics	According to the data from Alzheimer’s Disease International (ADI) in 2018, it is estimated that 10 million new dementia patients will be added worldwide, and the global dementia population is estimated to be 50 million. Due to a decline in the birth rate and the development and great progress of medical technology, the proportion of elderly people has risen annually in Taiwan. In fact, Taiwan has become one of the fastest-growing aged countries in the world. Consequently, problems related to aging societies will emerge. Dementia is one of most prevailing aging-related diseases, with a great influence on daily life and a great economic burden. Dementia is not a single disease, but a combination of symptoms. There is currently no medicine that can cure dementia. Finding preventive measures for dementia has become a public concern. Older people should actively increase brain-protective factors and reduce risk factors in their lives to reduce the risk of dementia and even prevent the occurrence of dementia. Studies have shown that engaging in mental or creative activities that stimulate brain function has a relative risk reduction of nearly 50%. Elderly people should develop the habit of life-long learning to strengthen effective neural bonds between brain cells and preserve brain cognitive functions. Playing chess is one of the suggested activities. This paper aimed to develop a Chinese robotic chess system for the elderly. It mainly uses a camera to capture the contour of the Chinese chessman, recognizes the character and location of the chessman, and then transmits this information to the robotic arm, which will grab and place the chessman in the appropriate position on the chessboard. The camera image is transmitted to MATLAB for image recognition. The character of the chessman is recognized by convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Forward and inverse kinematics are used to manipulate the robotic arm. Even if the chessmen are arbitrarily placed, the experiment showed that their coordinates can be found through the camera as long as they are located within the working scope of the camera and the robotic arm. For black chessmen, no matter how many degrees they are rotated, they can be recognized correctly, while the red ones can be recognized 100% of the time within 90° of rotation and 98.7% with more than a 90° rotation.	Department of Electrical Engineering, Southern Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Tainan 710, Taiwan	10.3390/su12103980	2020	12	10	-	-	3980	-
Stavropoulos, Thanos; Papastergiou, Asterios; Mpaltadoros, Lampros; Nikolopoulos, Spiros; Kompatsiaris, Ioannis	IoT Wearable Sensors and Devices in Elderly Care: A Literature Review	Sensors	EN	Review	IoT; wearables; sensors; devices; elders; old age; AAL; Alzheimer’s; dementia	The increasing ageing global population is causing an upsurge in ailments related to old age, primarily dementia and Alzheimer’s disease, frailty, Parkinson’s, and cardiovascular disease, but also a general need for general eldercare as well as active and healthy ageing. In turn, there is a need for constant monitoring and assistance, intervention, and support, causing a considerable financial and human burden on individuals and their caregivers. Interconnected sensing technology, such as IoT wearables and devices, present a promising solution for objective, reliable, and remote monitoring, assessment, and support through ambient assisted living. This paper presents a review of such solutions including both earlier review studies and individual case studies, rapidly evolving in the last decade. In doing so, it examines and categorizes them according to common aspects of interest such as health focus, from specific ailments to general eldercare; IoT technologies, from wearables to smart home sensors; aims, from assessment to fall detection and indoor positioning to intervention; and experimental evaluation participants duration and outcome measures, from acceptability to accuracy. Statistics drawn from this categorization aim to outline the current state-of-the-art, as well as trends and effective practices for the future of effective, accessible, and acceptable eldercare with technology.	Centre for Research &amp;amp; Technology Hellas, Information Technologies Institute, 6th Km Charilaou-Thermi, 57001 Thessaloniki, Greece	10.3390/s20102826	2020	20	10	-	-	2826	-
Chiarelli, Antonio; Perpetuini, David; Croce, Pierpaolo; Greco, Giuseppe; Mistretta, Leonardo; Rizzo, Raimondo; Vinciguerra, Vincenzo; Romeo, Mario; Zappasodi, Filippo; Merla, Arcangelo; Fallica, Pier; Edlinger, Günter; Ortner, Rupert; Giaconia, Giuseppe	Fiberless, Multi-Channel fNIRS-EEG System Based on Silicon Photomultipliers: Towards Sensitive and Ecological Mapping of Brain Activity and Neurovascular Coupling	Sensors	EN	Article	functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS); electroencephalography (EEG); multimodal neuroimaging; silicon photomultipliers; neurovascular coupling; clinical brain monitoring	Portable neuroimaging technologies can be employed for long-term monitoring of neurophysiological and neuropathological states. Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIRS) and Electroencephalography (EEG) are highly suited for such a purpose. Their multimodal integration allows the evaluation of hemodynamic and electrical brain activity together with neurovascular coupling. An innovative fNIRS-EEG system is here presented. The system integrated a novel continuous-wave fNIRS component and a modified commercial EEG device. fNIRS probing relied on fiberless technology based on light emitting diodes and silicon photomultipliers (SiPMs). SiPMs are sensitive semiconductor detectors, whose large detection area maximizes photon harvesting from the scalp and overcomes limitations of fiberless technology. To optimize the signal-to-noise ratio and avoid fNIRS-EEG interference, a digital lock-in was implemented for fNIRS signal acquisition. A benchtop characterization of the fNIRS component showed its high performances with a noise equivalent power below 1 pW. Moreover, the fNIRS-EEG device was tested in vivo during tasks stimulating visual, motor and pre-frontal cortices. Finally, the capabilities to perform ecological recordings were assessed in clinical settings on one Alzheimer’s Disease patient during long-lasting cognitive tests. The system can pave the way to portable technologies for accurate evaluation of multimodal brain activity, allowing their extensive employment in ecological environments and clinical practice.	Department of Neuroscience, Imaging and Clinical Sciences, Institute for Advanced Biomedical Technologies, University G. D’Annunzio of Chieti-Pescara, Via Luigi Polacchi 13, 66100 Chieti, Italy	10.3390/s20102831	2020	20	10	-	-	2831	-
Obrenovich, Mark; Jaworski, Hayden; Tadimalla, Tara; Mistry, Adil; Sykes, Lorraine; Perry, George; Bonomo, Robert	The Role of the Microbiota–Gut–Brain Axis and Antibiotics in ALS and Neurodegenerative Diseases	Microorganisms	EN	Review	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; ALS; chemobiotics; probiotics; symbiotics; neurodegeneration; Alzheimer disease; AD; holobiota; holobiome; microbiota; microbiome; microbiota–gut–brain axis; ceftriaxone	The human gut hosts a wide and diverse ecosystem of microorganisms termed the microbiota, which line the walls of the digestive tract and colon where they co-metabolize digestible and indigestible food to contribute a plethora of biochemical compounds with diverse biological functions. The influence gut microbes have on neurological processes is largely yet unexplored. However, recent data regarding the so-called leaky gut, leaky brain syndrome suggests a potential link between the gut microbiota, inflammation and host co-metabolism that may affect neuropathology both locally and distally from sites where microorganisms are found. The focus of this manuscript is to draw connection between the microbiota–gut–brain (MGB) axis, antibiotics and the use of “BUGS AS DRUGS” for neurodegenerative diseases, their treatment, diagnoses and management and to compare the effect of current and past pharmaceuticals and antibiotics for alternative mechanisms of action for brain and neuronal disorders, such as Alzheimer disease (AD), Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), mood disorders, schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders and others. It is a paradigm shift to suggest these diseases can be largely affected by unknown aspects of the microbiota. Therefore, a future exists for applying microbial, chemobiotic and chemotherapeutic approaches to enhance translational and personalized medical outcomes. Microbial modifying applications, such as CRISPR technology and recombinant DNA technology, among others, echo a theme in shifting paradigms, which involve the gut microbiota (GM) and mycobiota and will lead to potential gut-driven treatments for refractory neurologic diseases.	Research Service, Louis Stokes Cleveland, Department of Veteran’s Affairs Medical Center, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA	10.3390/microorganisms8050784	2020	8	5	-	-	784	-
Zampogna, Alessandro; Mileti, Ilaria; Palermo, Eduardo; Celletti, Claudia; Paoloni, Marco; Manoni, Alessandro; Mazzetta, Ivan; Dalla Costa, Gloria; Pérez-López, Carlos; Camerota, Filippo; Leocani, Letizia; Cabestany, Joan; Irrera, Fernanda; Suppa, Antonio	Fifteen Years of Wireless Sensors for Balance Assessment in Neurological Disorders	Sensors	EN	Review	wireless sensors; wearables; balance; posturography; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; multiple sclerosis; cerebellar ataxia; stroke; vestibular syndrome	Balance impairment is a major mechanism behind falling along with environmental hazards. Under physiological conditions, ageing leads to a progressive decline in balance control per se. Moreover, various neurological disorders further increase the risk of falls by deteriorating specific nervous system functions contributing to balance. Over the last 15 years, significant advancements in technology have provided wearable solutions for balance evaluation and the management of postural instability in patients with neurological disorders. This narrative review aims to address the topic of balance and wireless sensors in several neurological disorders, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, stroke, and other neurodegenerative and acute clinical syndromes. The review discusses the physiological and pathophysiological bases of balance in neurological disorders as well as the traditional and innovative instruments currently available for balance assessment. The technical and clinical perspectives of wearable technologies, as well as current challenges in the field of teleneurology, are also examined.	Department of Human Neurosciences, Sapienza University of Rome, 00185 Rome, Italy	10.3390/s20113247	2020	20	11	-	-	3247	-
Song, Chao; Que, Suya; Heimer, Lucas; Que, Long	On-Chip Detection of the Biomarkers for Neurodegenerative Diseases: Technologies and Prospects	Micromachines	EN	Review	neurodegenerative diseases; on-chip detection; point-of-care diagnostics	Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD) and glaucoma are all regarded as neurodegenerative diseases (neuro-DDs) because these diseases are highly related to the degeneration loss of functions and death of neurons with aging. The conventional diagnostic methods such as neuroimaging for these diseases are not only expensive but also time-consuming, resulting in significant financial burdens for patients and public health challenge for nations around the world. Hence early detection of neuro-DDs in a cost-effective and rapid manner is critically needed. For the past decades, some chip-based detection technologies have been developed to address this challenge, showing great potential in achieving point-of-care (POC) diagnostics of neuro-DDs. In this review, chip-based detection of neuro-DDs’ biomarkers enabled by different transducing mechanisms is evaluated.	Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011, USA	10.3390/mi11070629	2020	11	7	-	-	629	-
Bondareva, Olga; Sheikh, Bilal	Vascular Homeostasis and Inflammation in Health and Disease—Lessons from Single Cell Technologies	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	vasculature; atherosclerosis; single cell technologies; neurodegeneration; inflammation	The vascular system is critical infrastructure that transports oxygen and nutrients around the body, and dynamically adapts its function to an array of environmental changes. To fulfil the demands of diverse organs, each with unique functions and requirements, the vascular system displays vast regional heterogeneity as well as specialized cell types. Our understanding of the heterogeneity of vascular cells and the molecular mechanisms that regulate their function is beginning to benefit greatly from the rapid development of single cell technologies. Recent studies have started to analyze and map vascular beds in a range of organs in healthy and diseased states at single cell resolution. The current review focuses on recent biological insights on the vascular system garnered from single cell analyses. We cover the themes of vascular heterogeneity, phenotypic plasticity of vascular cells in pathologies such as atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease, as well as the contribution of defective microvasculature to the development of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease. Further adaptation of single cell technologies to study the vascular system will be pivotal in uncovering the mechanisms that drive the array of diseases underpinned by vascular dysfunction.	Helmholtz Institute for Metabolic, Obesity and Vascular Research (HI-MAG) of the Helmholtz Zentrum München at the University of Leipzig and University Hospital Leipzig, Philipp-Rosenthal-Str. 27, 04103 Leipzig, Germany	10.3390/ijms21134688	2020	21	13	-	-	4688	-
Tozzo, Pamela; Zullo, Silvia; Caenazzo, Luciana	Science Runs and the Debate Brakes: Somatic Gene-Editing as a New Tool for Gender-Specific Medicine in Alzheimer’s Disease	Brain Sciences	EN	Editorial	Alzheimer’s disease; ethics; genders; health and new technologies; somatic gene-editing	Gender-specific medicine is a discipline that studies the influence of sex and gender on physiology, pathophysiology, and diseases. One example in light of how a genetic-based disease among other diseases, that impact on sex, can be represented by the risk of developing dementia or Alzheimer’s disease. The question that comes into focus is whether gene-editing can represent a new line of investigation to be explored in the development of personalized, gender-specific medicine that guarantees gender equity in health policies. This article aims to discuss the relevance of adopting a gender-specific focus on gene-editing research, considered as a way of contributing to the advance of medicine’s understanding, treatment, and prevention of dementia, particularly Alzheimer’s disease. The development or improvement of cures could take advantage of the knowledge of the gender diversity in order to ascertain and develop differential interventions also at the genetic level between women and men, and this deserves special attention and deep ethical reflection.	Department of Molecular Medicine, Laboratory of Forensic Genetics, University of Padova, Via Falloppio 50, 35121 Padova, Italy	10.3390/brainsci10070421	2020	10	7	-	-	421	-
Pistollato, Francesca; Bernasconi, Camilla; McCarthy, Janine; Campia, Ivana; Desaintes, Christian; Wittwehr, Clemens; Deceuninck, Pierre; Whelan, Maurice	Alzheimer’s Disease, and Breast and Prostate Cancer Research: Translational Failures and the Importance to Monitor Outputs and Impact of Funded Research	Animals	EN	Review	biomedical research; Alzheimer’s disease; breast cancer; prostate cancer; funding; indicators; translational failure; animal models; cross-disciplinarity	Dementia and cancer are becoming increasingly prevalent in Western countries. In the last two decades, research focused on Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and cancer, in particular, breast cancer (BC) and prostate cancer (PC), has been substantially funded both in Europe and worldwide. While scientific research outcomes have contributed to increase our understanding of the disease etiopathology, still the prevalence of these chronic degenerative conditions remains very high across the globe. By definition, no model is perfect. In particular, animal models of AD, BC, and PC have been and still are traditionally used in basic/fundamental, translational, and preclinical research to study human disease mechanisms, identify new therapeutic targets, and develop new drugs. However, animals do not adequately model some essential features of human disease; therefore, they are often unable to pave the way to the development of drugs effective in human patients. The rise of new technological tools and models in life science, and the increasing need for multidisciplinary approaches have encouraged many interdisciplinary research initiatives. With considerable funds being invested in biomedical research, it is becoming pivotal to define and apply indicators to monitor the contribution to innovation and impact of funded research. Here, we discuss some of the issues underlying translational failure in AD, BC, and PC research, and describe how indicators could be applied to retrospectively measure outputs and impact of funded biomedical research.	European Commission, Joint Research Centre (JRC), 21027 Ispra, Italy	10.3390/ani10071194	2020	10	7	-	-	1194	-
Karaman Mayack, Berin; Sippl, Wolfgang; Ntie-Kang, Fidele	Natural Products as Modulators of Sirtuins	Molecules	EN	Review	natural products; sirtuin; drug discovery; epigenetics; structure–activity relationship	Natural products have been used for the treatment of human diseases since ancient history. Over time, due to the lack of precise tools and techniques for the separation, purification, and structural elucidation of active constituents in natural resources there has been a decline in financial support and efforts in characterization of natural products. Advances in the design of chemical compounds and the understanding of their functions is of pharmacological importance for the biomedical field. However, natural products regained attention as sources of novel drug candidates upon recent developments and progress in technology. Natural compounds were shown to bear an inherent ability to bind to biomacromolecules and cover an unparalleled chemical space in comparison to most libraries used for high-throughput screening. Thus, natural products hold a great potential for the drug discovery of new scaffolds for therapeutic targets such as sirtuins. Sirtuins are Class III histone deacetylases that have been linked to many diseases such as Parkinson`s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, type II diabetes, and cancer linked to aging. In this review, we examine the revitalization of interest in natural products for drug discovery and discuss natural product modulators of sirtuins that could serve as a starting point for the development of isoform selective and highly potent drug-like compounds, as well as the potential application of naturally occurring sirtuin inhibitors in human health and those in clinical trials.	Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Istanbul University, Istanbul 34116, Turkey	10.3390/molecules25143287	2020	25	14	-	-	3287	-
Gupta, Rishikesh; Kuznicki, Jacek	Biological and Medical Importance of Cellular Heterogeneity Deciphered by Single-Cell RNA Sequencing	Cells	EN	Review	scRNA-seq; transcriptomics; cell-to-cell heterogeneity; machine learning; artificial intelligence	The present review discusses recent progress in single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), which can describe cellular heterogeneity in various organs, bodily fluids, and pathologies (e.g., cancer and Alzheimer’s disease). We outline scRNA-seq techniques that are suitable for investigating cellular heterogeneity that is present in cell populations with very high resolution of the transcriptomic landscape. We summarize scRNA-seq findings and applications of this technology to identify cell types, activity, and other features that are important for the function of different bodily organs. We discuss future directions for scRNA-seq techniques that can link gene expression, protein expression, cellular function, and their roles in pathology. We speculate on how the field could develop beyond its present limitations (e.g., performing scRNA-seq in situ and in vivo). Finally, we discuss the integration of machine learning and artificial intelligence with cutting-edge scRNA-seq technology, which could provide a strong basis for designing precision medicine and targeted therapy in the future.	International Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology in Warsaw, Trojdena 4, 02-109 Warsaw Poland	10.3390/cells9081751	2020	9	8	-	-	1751	-
Bonilauri, Augusto; Sangiuliano Intra, Francesca; Pugnetti, Luigi; Baselli, Giuseppe; Baglio, Francesca	A Systematic Review of Cerebral Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy in Chronic Neurological Diseases—Actual Applications and Future Perspectives	Diagnostics	EN	Review	neurovascular coupling; fNIRS; neurological disease; neuroimaging; Parkinson’s Disease; Alzheimer’s Disease; Mild Cognitive Impairment	Background: The management of people affected by age-related neurological disorders requires the adoption of targeted and cost-effective interventions to cope with chronicity. Therapy adaptation and rehabilitation represent major targets requiring long-term follow-up of neurodegeneration or, conversely, the promotion of neuroplasticity mechanisms. However, affordable and reliable neurophysiological correlates of cerebral activity to be used throughout treatment stages are often lacking. The aim of this systematic review is to highlight actual applications of functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIRS) as a versatile optical neuroimaging technology for investigating cortical hemodynamic activity in the most common chronic neurological conditions. Methods: We reviewed studies investigating fNIRS applications in Parkinson’s Disease (PD), Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) as those focusing on motor and cognitive impairment in ageing and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) as the most common chronic neurological disease in young adults. The literature search was conducted on NCBI PubMed and Web of Science databases by PRISMA guidelines. Results: We identified a total of 63 peer-reviewed articles. The AD spectrum is the most investigated pathology with 40 articles ranging from the traditional monitoring of tissue oxygenation to the analysis of functional resting-state conditions or cognitive functions by means of memory and verbal fluency tasks. Conversely, applications in PD (12 articles) and MS (11 articles) are mainly focused on the characterization of motor functions and their association with dual-task conditions. The most investigated cortical area is the prefrontal cortex, since reported to play an important role in age-related compensatory mechanism and neurofunctional changes associated to these chronic neurological conditions. Interestingly, only 9 articles applied a longitudinal approach. Conclusion: The results indicate that fNIRS is mainly employed for the cross-sectional characterization of the clinical phenotypes of these pathologies, whereas data on its utility for longitudinal monitoring as surrogate biomarkers of disease progression and rehabilitation effects are promising but still lacking.	Department of Electronics, Information and Bioengineering, Politecnico di Milano, 20133 Milan, Italy	10.3390/diagnostics10080581	2020	10	8	-	-	581	-
Skinner, William; Ong, Keat	Modern Electrode Technologies for Ion and Molecule Sensing	Sensors	EN	Review	ion-selective; electrode; electrochemical; voltammetry; environmental sensors; bio-sensors	In high concentrations, ionic species can be toxic in the body, catalyzing unwanted bioreactions, inhibiting enzymes, generating free radicals, in addition to having been associated with diseases like Alzheimer’s and cancer. Although ionic species are ubiquitous in the environment in trace amounts, high concentrations of these metals are often found within industrial and agricultural waste runoff. Therefore, it remains a global interest to develop technologies capable of quickly and accurately detecting trace levels of ionic species, particularly in aqueous environments that naturally contain other competing/inhibiting ions. Herein, we provide an overview of the technologies that have been developed, including the general theory, design, and benefits/challenges associated with ion-selective electrode technologies (carrier-doped membranes, carbon-based varieties, enzyme inhibition electrodes). Notable variations of these electrodes will be highlighted, and a brief overview of associated electrochemical techniques will be given.	Department of Chemistry, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403, USA	10.3390/s20164568	2020	20	16	-	-	4568	-
Li, Yan; Li, Danni; Zhao, Pei; Nandakumar, Krishnaswamy; Wang, Liqiu; Song, Youqiang	Microfluidics-Based Systems in Diagnosis of Alzheimer’s Disease and Biomimetic Modeling	Micromachines	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease (AD); microfluidic chips; AD biomarkers; blood–brain barrier (BBB); three-dimensional AD model	Early detection and accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is essential for patient care and disease treatment. Microfluidic technology is emerging as an economical and versatile platform in disease detection and diagnosis. It can be conveniently integrated with nanotechnology and/or biological models for biomedical functional and pre-clinical treatment study. These strengths make it advantageous in disease biomarker detection and functional analysis against a wide range of biological backgrounds. This review highlights the recent developments and trends of microfluidic applications in AD research. The first part looks at the principles and methods for AD diagnostic biomarker detection and profiling. The second part discusses how microfluidic chips, especially organ-on-a-chip platforms, could be used as an independent approach and/or integrated with other technologies in AD biomimetic functional analysis.	Energy Institute, Qilu University of Technology (Shandong Academy of Sciences), Jinan 250014, China	10.3390/mi11090787	2020	11	9	-	-	787	-
Sim, Tao; Tarini, Dinesh; Dheen, S.; Bay, Boon; Srinivasan, Dinesh	Nanoparticle-Based Technology Approaches to the Management of Neurological Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	neurological disorders; blood-brain barrier; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; cerebrovascular diseases; traumatic brain injury; nanoparticles	Neurological disorders are the most devastating and challenging diseases associated with the central nervous system (CNS). The blood-brain barrier (BBB) maintains homeostasis of the brain and contributes towards the maintenance of a very delicate microenvironment, impairing the transport of many therapeutics into the CNS and making the management of common neurological disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), cerebrovascular diseases (CVDs) and traumatic brain injury (TBI), exceptionally complicated. Nanoparticle (NP) technology offers a platform for the design of tissue-specific drug carrying systems owing to its versatile and modifiable nature. The prospect of being able to design NPs capable of successfully crossing the BBB, and maintaining a high drug bioavailability in neural parenchyma, has spurred much interest in the field of nanomedicine. NPs, which also come in an array of forms including polymeric NPs, solid lipid nanoparticles (SLNs), quantum dots and liposomes, have the flexibility of being conjugated with various macromolecules, such as surfactants to confer the physical or chemical property desired. These nanodelivery strategies represent potential novel and minimally invasive approaches to the treatment and diagnosis of these neurological disorders. Most of the strategies revolve around the ability of the NPs to cross the BBB via various influx mechanisms, such as adsorptive-mediated transcytosis (AMT) and receptor-mediated transcytosis (RMT), targeting specific biomarkers or lesions unique to that pathological condition, thereby ensuring high tissue-specific targeting and minimizing off-target side effects. In this article, insights into common neurological disorders and challenges of delivering CNS drugs due to the presence of BBB is provided, before an in-depth review of nanoparticle-based theranostic strategies.	Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore 117597, Singapore	10.3390/ijms21176070	2020	21	17	-	-	6070	-
Semyachkina-Glushkovskaya, Oxana; Postnov, Dmitry; Penzel, Thomas; Kurths, Jürgen	Sleep as a Novel Biomarker and a Promising Therapeutic Target for Cerebral Small Vessel Disease: A Review Focusing on Alzheimer’s Disease and the Blood-Brain Barrier	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Cerebral small vessel disease; sleep; slow wave activity; Alzheimer’S disease; blood-brain barrier	Cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) is a leading cause of cognitive decline in elderly people and development of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Blood–brain barrier (BBB) leakage is a key pathophysiological mechanism of amyloidal CSVD. Sleep plays a crucial role in keeping health of the central nervous system and in resistance to CSVD. The deficit of sleep contributes to accumulation of metabolites and toxins such as beta-amyloid in the brain and can lead to BBB disruption. Currently, sleep is considered as an important informative platform for diagnosis and therapy of AD. However, there are no effective methods for extracting of diagnostic information from sleep characteristics. In this review, we show strong evidence that slow wave activity (SWA) (0–0.5 Hz) during deep sleep reflects glymphatic pathology, the BBB leakage and memory deficit in AD. We also discuss that diagnostic and therapeutic targeting of SWA in AD might lead to be a novel era in effective therapy of AD. Moreover, we demonstrate that SWA can be pioneering non-invasive and bed–side technology for express diagnosis of the BBB permeability. Finally, we review the novel data about the methods of detection and enhancement of SWA that can be biomarker and a promising therapy of amyloidal CSVD and CSVD associated with the BBB disorders.	Department of Human and Animal Physiology, Saratov State University, Astrakhanskaya Str. 83, 410012 Saratov, Russia	10.3390/ijms21176293	2020	21	17	-	-	6293	-
Karaglani, Makrina; Gourlia, Krystallia; Tsamardinos, Ioannis; Chatzaki, Ekaterini	Accurate Blood-Based Diagnostic Biosignatures for Alzheimer’s Disease via Automated Machine Learning	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; predictive model; machine learning; blood; classifier	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the most common form of neurodegenerative dementia and its timely diagnosis remains a major challenge in biomarker discovery. In the present study, we analyzed publicly available high-throughput low-sample -omics datasets from studies in AD blood, by the AutoML technology Just Add Data Bio (JADBIO), to construct accurate predictive models for use as diagnostic biosignatures. Considering data from AD patients and age–sex matched cognitively healthy individuals, we produced three best performing diagnostic biosignatures specific for the presence of AD: A. A 506-feature transcriptomic dataset from 48 AD and 22 controls led to a miRNA-based biosignature via Support Vector Machines with three miRNA predictors (AUC 0.975 (0.906, 1.000)), B. A 38,327-feature transcriptomic dataset from 134 AD and 100 controls led to six mRNA-based statistically equivalent signatures via Classification Random Forests with 25 mRNA predictors (AUC 0.846 (0.778, 0.905)) and C. A 9483-feature proteomic dataset from 25 AD and 37 controls led to a protein-based biosignature via Ridge Logistic Regression with seven protein predictors (AUC 0.921 (0.849, 0.972)). These performance metrics were also validated through the JADBIO pipeline confirming stability. In conclusion, using the automated machine learning tool JADBIO, we produced accurate predictive biosignatures extrapolating available low sample -omics data. These results offer options for minimally invasive blood-based diagnostic tests for AD, awaiting clinical validation based on respective laboratory assays. They also highlight the value of AutoML in biomarker discovery.	Laboratory of Pharmacology, Medical School, Democritus University of Thrace, 68100 Alexandroupolis, Greece	10.3390/jcm9093016	2020	9	9	-	-	3016	-
Garcia-Leon, Juan; Caceres-Palomo, Laura; Sanchez-Mejias, Elisabeth; Mejias-Ortega, Marina; Nuñez-Diaz, Cristina; Fernandez-Valenzuela, Juan; Sanchez-Varo, Raquel; Davila, Jose; Vitorica, Javier; Gutierrez, Antonia	Human Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Neural Cells as a Relevant Platform for Drug Screening in Alzheimer’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs); disease modeling; Alzheimer’s disease; microglia; astrocytes; oligodendrocytes; 3D cultures; brain organoids	Extracellular amyloid-beta deposition and intraneuronal Tau-laden neurofibrillary tangles are prime features of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). The pathology of AD is very complex and still not fully understood, since different neural cell types are involved in the disease. Although neuronal function is clearly deteriorated in AD patients, recently, an increasing number of evidences have pointed towards glial cell dysfunction as one of the main causative phenomena implicated in AD pathogenesis. The complex disease pathology together with the lack of reliable disease models have precluded the development of effective therapies able to counteract disease progression. The discovery and implementation of human pluripotent stem cell technology represents an important opportunity in this field, as this system allows the generation of patient-derived cells to be used for disease modeling and therapeutic target identification and as a platform to be employed in drug discovery programs. In this review, we discuss the current studies using human pluripotent stem cells focused on AD, providing convincing evidences that this system is an excellent opportunity to advance in the comprehension of AD pathology, which will be translated to the development of the still missing effective therapies.	Departamento Biologia Celular, Genetica y Fisiologia, Instituto de Investigacion Biomedica de Malaga-IBIMA, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Malaga, 29071 Malaga, Spain	10.3390/ijms21186867	2020	21	18	-	-	6867	-
Gentile, Francesco; Doneddu, Pietro; Riva, Nilo; Nobile-Orazio, Eduardo; Quattrini, Angelo	Diet, Microbiota and Brain Health: Unraveling the Network Intersecting Metabolism and Neurodegeneration	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	dysbiosis; diet; metabolism; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	Increasing evidence gives support for the idea that extra-neuronal factors may affect brain physiology and its predisposition to neurodegenerative diseases. Epidemiological and experimental studies show that nutrition and metabolic disorders such as obesity and type 2 diabetes increase the risk of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases after midlife, while the relationship with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is uncertain, but suggests a protective effect of features of metabolic syndrome. The microbiota has recently emerged as a novel factor engaging strong interactions with neurons and glia, deeply affecting their function and behavior in these diseases. In particular, recent evidence suggested that gut microbes are involved in the seeding of prion-like proteins and their spreading to the central nervous system. Here, we present a comprehensive review of the impact of metabolism, diet and microbiota in neurodegeneration, by affecting simultaneously several aspects of health regarding energy metabolism, immune system and neuronal function. Advancing technologies may allow researchers in the future to improve investigations in these fields, allowing the buildup of population-based preventive interventions and development of targeted therapeutics to halt progressive neurologic disability.	Experimental Neuropathology Unit, Institute of Experimental Neurology, Division of Neuroscience, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 20132 Milan, Italy	10.3390/ijms21207471	2020	21	20	-	-	7471	-
Georgiev, Vasil; Ivanov, Ivan; Pavlov, Atanas	Recent Progress in Amaryllidaceae Biotechnology	Molecules	EN	Review	alkaloids; Amaryllidaceae; bioreactors; galanthamine; plant in vitro systems	Plants belonging to the monocotyledonous Amaryllidaceae family include about 1100 species divided among 75 genera. They are well known as medicinal and ornamental plants, producing pharmaceutically important alkaloids, the most intensively investigated of which are galanthamine and lycorine. Amaryllidaceae alkaloids possess various biological activities, the most important one being their anti-acetylcholinesterase activity, used for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. Due to increased demand for Amaryllidaceae alkaloids (mainly galanthamine) and the limited availability of plant sources, in vitro culture technology has attracted the attention of researchers as a prospective alternative for their sustainable production. Plant in vitro systems have been extensively used for continuous, sustainable, and economically viable production of bioactive plant secondary metabolites. Over the past two decades, a significant success has been demonstrated in the development of in vitro systems synthesizing Amaryllidaceae alkaloids. The present review discusses the state of the art of in vitro Amaryllidaceae alkaloids production, summarizing recently documented plant in vitro systems producing them, as well as the authors’ point of view on the development of biotechnological production processes with a focus on the future prospects of in vitro culture technology for the commercial production of these valuable alkaloids.	Laboratory of Cell Biosystems, The Stephan Angeloff Institute of Microbiology, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Plovdiv 4000, Bulgaria	10.3390/molecules25204670	2020	25	20	-	-	4670	-
Jin, Roger; Pilozzi, Alexander; Huang, Xudong	Current Cognition Tests, Potential Virtual Reality Applications, and Serious Games in Cognitive Assessment and Non-Pharmacological Therapy for Neurocognitive Disorders	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Review	aging; major neurocognitive disorder; Alzheimer’s disease; cognitive assessment; mild neurocognitive disorder; mini-mental state examination; virtual reality; augmented reality; mixed reality	As the global population ages, the incidence of major neurocognitive disorders (major NCDs), such as the most common geriatric major NCD, Alzheimer’s disease (AD), has grown. Thus, the need for more definitive cognitive assessment or even effective non-pharmacological intervention for age-related NCDs is becoming more and more pressing given that no definitive diagnostics or efficacious therapeutics are currently unavailable for them. We evaluate the current state of the art of cognitive assessment for major NCDs, and then briefly glance ahead at potential application of virtual reality (VR) technologies in major NCD assessment and in cognition training of visuospatial reasoning in a 3D environment, as well as in the alleviation of depression and other symptoms of cognitive disorders. We believe that VR-based technologies have tremendous potentials in cognitive assessment and non-pharmacological therapy for major NCDs.	Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA 02129, USA	10.3390/jcm9103287	2020	9	10	-	-	3287	-
Czapski, Grzegorz; Zhao, Yuhai; Lukiw, Walter; Strosznajder, Joanna	Acute Systemic Inflammatory Response Alters Transcription Profile of Genes Related to Immune Response and Ca2+ Homeostasis in Hippocampus; Relevance to Neurodegenerative Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	lipopolysaccharide; systemic inflammation; hippocampus; neuroinflammation; neurodegeneration; microarray	Acute systemic inflammatory response (SIR) triggers an alteration in the transcription of brain genes related to neuroinflammation, oxidative stress and cells death. These changes are also characteristic for Alzheimer’s disease (AD) neuropathology. Our aim was to evaluate gene expression patterns in the mouse hippocampus (MH) by using microarray technology 12 and 96 h after SIR evoked by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The results were compared with microarray analysis of human postmortem hippocampal AD tissues. It was found that 12 h after LPS administration the expression of 231 genes in MH was significantly altered (FC > 2.0); however, after 96 h only the S100a8 gene encoding calgranulin A was activated (FC = 2.9). Gene ontology enrichment analysis demonstrated the alteration of gene expression related mostly to the immune-response including the gene Lcn2 for Lipocalin 2 (FC = 237.8), involved in glia neurotoxicity. The expression of genes coding proteins involved in epigenetic regulation, histone deacetylases (Hdac4,5,8,9,11) and bromo- and extraterminal domain protein Brd3 were downregulated; however, Brd2 was found to be upregulated. Remarkably, the significant increase in expression of Lcn2, S100a8, S100a9 and also Saa3 and Ch25h, was found in AD brains suggesting that early changes of immune-response genes evoked by mild SIR could be crucial in AD pathogenesis.	Department of Cellular Signalling, Mossakowski Medical Research Centre Polish Academy of Sciences, Pawińskiego 5, 02-106 Warsaw, Poland	10.3390/ijms21217838	2020	21	21	-	-	7838	-
Dhakal, Sudip; Macreadie, Ian	Protein Homeostasis Networks and the Use of Yeast to Guide Interventions in Alzheimer’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’ disease; yeast; proteostasis; unfolded protein response; autophagy; ubiquitin proteasome system	Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) is a progressive multifactorial age-related neurodegenerative disorder that causes the majority of deaths due to dementia in the elderly. Although various risk factors have been found to be associated with AD progression, the cause of the disease is still unresolved. The loss of proteostasis is one of the major causes of AD: it is evident by aggregation of misfolded proteins, lipid homeostasis disruption, accumulation of autophagic vesicles, and oxidative damage during the disease progression. Different models have been developed to study AD, one of which is a yeast model. Yeasts are simple unicellular eukaryotic cells that have provided great insights into human cell biology. Various yeast models, including unmodified and genetically modified yeasts, have been established for studying AD and have provided significant amount of information on AD pathology and potential interventions. The conservation of various human biological processes, including signal transduction, energy metabolism, protein homeostasis, stress responses, oxidative phosphorylation, vesicle trafficking, apoptosis, endocytosis, and ageing, renders yeast a fascinating, powerful model for AD. In addition, the easy manipulation of the yeast genome and availability of methods to evaluate yeast cells rapidly in high throughput technological platforms strengthen the rationale of using yeast as a model. This review focuses on the description of the proteostasis network in yeast and its comparison with the human proteostasis network. It further elaborates on the AD-associated proteostasis failure and applications of the yeast proteostasis network to understand AD pathology and its potential to guide interventions against AD.	School of Science, RMIT University, Bundoora, Victoria 3083, Australia	10.3390/ijms21218014	2020	21	21	-	-	8014	-
Cuomo, Paola; Papaianni, Marina; Sansone, Clementina; Iannelli, Antonio; Iannelli, Domenico; Medaglia, Chiara; Paris, Debora; Motta, Andrea; Capparelli, Rosanna	An In Vitro Model to Investigate the Role of Helicobacter pylori in Type 2 Diabetes, Obesity, Alzheimer’s Disease and Cardiometabolic Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	Helicobacter pylori; mTORC1; branched chain amino acids; inflammation; mitochondrial dysfunction	Helicobacter pylori (Hp) is a Gram-negative bacterium colonizing the human stomach. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) analysis of intracellular human gastric carcinoma cells (MKN-28) incubated with the Hp cell filtrate (Hpcf) displays high levels of amino acids, including the branched chain amino acids (BCAA) isoleucine, leucine, and valine. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) Array Technology shows upregulation of mammalian Target Of Rapamycin Complex 1 (mTORC1), inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. The review of literature indicates that these traits are common to type 2 diabetes, obesity, Alzheimer’s diseases, and cardiometabolic disease. Here, we demonstrate how Hp may modulate these traits. Hp induces high levels of amino acids, which, in turn, activate mTORC1, which is the complex regulating the metabolism of the host. A high level of BCAA and upregulation of mTORC1 are, thus, directly regulated by Hp. Furthermore, Hp modulates inflammation, which is functional to the persistence of chronic infection and the asymptomatic state of the host. Finally, in order to induce autophagy and sustain bacterial colonization of gastric mucosa, the Hp toxin VacA localizes within mitochondria, causing fragmentation of these organelles, depletion of ATP, and oxidative stress. In conclusion, our in vitro disease model replicates the main traits common to the above four diseases and shows how Hp may potentially manipulate them.	Department of Agriculture Sciences, University of Naples “Federico II”, via Università, 100-Portici, 80055 Naples, Italy	10.3390/ijms21218369	2020	21	21	-	-	8369	-
Pardridge, William	Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease and Blood–Brain Barrier Drug Delivery	Pharmaceuticals	EN	Review	blood–brain barrier; brain drug delivery; drug targeting; endothelium; Alzheimer’s disease; therapeutic antibodies; neurotrophins; TNF inhibitors	Despite the enormity of the societal and health burdens caused by Alzheimer’s disease (AD), there have been no FDA approvals for new therapeutics for AD since 2003. This profound lack of progress in treatment of AD is due to dual problems, both related to the blood–brain barrier (BBB). First, 98% of small molecule drugs do not cross the BBB, and ~100% of biologic drugs do not cross the BBB, so BBB drug delivery technology is needed in AD drug development. Second, the pharmaceutical industry has not developed BBB drug delivery technology, which would enable industry to invent new therapeutics for AD that actually penetrate into brain parenchyma from blood. In 2020, less than 1% of all AD drug development projects use a BBB drug delivery technology. The pathogenesis of AD involves chronic neuro-inflammation, the progressive deposition of insoluble amyloid-beta or tau aggregates, and neural degeneration. New drugs that both attack these multiple sites in AD, and that have been coupled with BBB drug delivery technology, can lead to new and effective treatments of this serious disorder.	Department of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90024, USA	10.3390/ph13110394	2020	13	11	-	-	394	-
Song, Chao; Guo, Shuang; Jin, Sila; Chen, Lei; Jung, Young	Biomarkers Determination Based on Surface-Enhanced Raman Scattering	Chemosensors	EN	Review	biomarker; surface-enhanced Raman scattering; disease; tumor; viruses; Alzheimer’s disease; cardiac muscle tissue injury; cell	An overview of noteworthy new methods of biomarker determination based on surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) is presented. Biomarkers can be used to identify the occurrence and development of diseases, which furthers the understanding of biological processes in the body. Accurate detection of a disease-specific biomarker is helpful for the identification, early diagnosis and prevention of a disease and for monitoring during treatment. The search for and discovery of valuable biomarkers have become important research hotspots. Different diseases have different biomarkers, some of which are involved in metabolic processes. Therefore, the fingerprint characteristics and band intensities in SERS spectra have been used to identify metabolites and analyze markers. As a promising technique, SERS has been widely used for the quantitative and qualitative determination of different types of biomarkers for different diseases. SERS techniques provide new technologies for the diagnosis of disease-related markers and determining the basis for clinical treatment. Herein, several SERS-based methods with excellent sensitivity and selectivity for the determination of biomarkers for tumors, viruses, Alzheimer’s disease, cardiac muscle tissue injury, and cell activity are highlighted.	Teaching Affairs Office, Jilin Normal University, Siping 136000, China	10.3390/chemosensors8040118	2020	8	4	-	-	118	-
Sansano-Sansano, Emilio; Aranda, Fernando; Montoliu, Raúl; Álvarez, Fernando	BLE-GSpeed: A New BLE-Based Dataset to Estimate User Gait Speed	Data	EN	Data Descriptor	gait speed; public database; BLE-based technology	To estimate the user gait speed can be crucial in many topics, such as health care systems, since the presence of difficulties in walking is a core indicator of health and function in aging and disease. Methods for non-invasive and continuous assessment of the gait speed may be key to enable early detection of cognitive diseases such as dementia or Alzheimer’s disease. Wearable technologies can provide innovative solutions for healthcare problems. Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) technology is excellent for wearables because it is very energy efficient, secure, and inexpensive. In this paper, the BLE-GSpeed database is presented. The dataset is composed of several BLE RSSI measurements obtained while users were walking at a constant speed along a corridor. Moreover, a set of experiments using a baseline algorithm to estimate the gait speed are also presented to provide baseline results to the research community.	Institute of New Imaging Technologies, Universitat Jaume I, Avda. Vicente Sos Baynat S/N, 12071 Castellón, Spain	10.3390/data5040115	2020	5	4	-	-	115	-
Seo, Jungryul; Laine, Teemu; Oh, Gyuhwan; Sohn, Kyung-Ah	EEG-Based Emotion Classification for Alzheimer’s Disease Patients Using Conventional Machine Learning and Recurrent Neural Network Models	Sensors	EN	Article	dementia; Alzheimer’s disease; EEG; sensor; machine learning; deep learning; emotion; classification	As the number of patients with Alzheimer’s disease (AD) increases, the effort needed to care for these patients increases as well. At the same time, advances in information and sensor technologies have reduced caring costs, providing a potential pathway for developing healthcare services for AD patients. For instance, if a virtual reality (VR) system can provide emotion-adaptive content, the time that AD patients spend interacting with VR content is expected to be extended, allowing caregivers to focus on other tasks. As the first step towards this goal, in this study, we develop a classification model that detects AD patients’ emotions (e.g., happy, peaceful, or bored). We first collected electroencephalography (EEG) data from 30 Korean female AD patients who watched emotion-evoking videos at a medical rehabilitation center. We applied conventional machine learning algorithms, such as a multilayer perceptron (MLP) and support vector machine, along with deep learning models of recurrent neural network (RNN) architectures. The best performance was obtained from MLP, which achieved an average accuracy of 70.97%; the RNN model’s accuracy reached only 48.18%. Our study results open a new stream of research in the field of EEG-based emotion detection for patients with neurological disorders.	Department of Computer Engineering, Ajou University, Suwon 16499, Korea	10.3390/s20247212	2020	20	24	-	-	7212	-
Mayans, Enric; Alemán, Carlos	Revisiting the Self-Assembly of Highly Aromatic Phenylalanine Homopeptides	Molecules	EN	Review	molecular engineering; morphological engineering; nanostructures; peptides; staking interactions; supramolecular chemistry	Diphenylalanine peptide (FF), which self-assembles into rigid tubular nanostructures, is a very short core recognition motif in Alzheimer’s disease β-amyloid (Aβ) polypeptide. Moreover, the ability of the phenylalanine (F or Phe)-homopeptides to self-assemble into ordered nanostructures has been proved. Within this context it was shown that the assembly preferences of this family of compounds is altered by capping both the N- and C-termini using highly aromatic fluorenyl groups (i.e., fluorenyl-9-methoxycarbonyl and 9-fluorenylmethyl ester, named Fmoc and OFm, respectively). In this article the work performed in the field of the effect of the structure and incubation conditions on the morphology and polymorphism of short (from two to four amino acid residues) Phe-homopeptides is reviewed and accompanied by introducing some new results for completing the comparison. Special attention has been paid to the influence of solvent: co-solvent mixture used to solubilize the peptide, the peptide concentration and, in some cases, the temperature. More specifically, uncapped (FF, FFF, and FFFF), N-capped with Fmoc (Fmoc-FF, Fmoc-FFF, and Fmoc-FFFF), C-capped with OFm (FF-OFm), and doubly capped (Fmoc-FF-OFm, Fmoc-FFF-OFm, and Fmoc-FFFF-OFm) Phe-homopeptides have been re-measured. Although many of the experienced assembly conditions have been only revisited as they were previously reported, other experimental conditions have been examined by the first time in this work. In any case, pooling the effect of highly aromatic blocking groups in a single study, using a wide variety of experimental conditions, allows a perspective of how the disappearance of head-to-tail electrostatic interactions and the gradual increase in the amount of π–π stacking interactions, affects the morphology of the assemblies. Future technological applications of Phe-homopeptides can be envisaged by choosing the most appropriate self-assemble structure, defining not only the length of the peptide but also the amount and the position of fluorenyl capping groups.	Departament d’Enginyeria Química and Barcelona Research Center for Multiscale Science and Engineering, Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, EEBE, C/Eduard Maristany, 10-14, Ed. I2, 08019 Barcelona, Spain	10.3390/molecules25246037	2020	25	24	-	-	6037	-
Munch, Maxime; Rotstein, Benjamin; Ulrich, Gilles	Fluorine-18-Labeled Fluorescent Dyes for Dual-Mode Molecular Imaging	Molecules	EN	Review	positron emission tomography; Fluorine-18; fluorescence; molecular imaging; dual-mode imaging; radiofluorination	Recent progress realized in the development of optical imaging (OPI) probes and devices has made this technique more and more affordable for imaging studies and fluorescence-guided surgery procedures. However, this imaging modality still suffers from a low depth of penetration, thus limiting its use to shallow tissues or endoscopy-based procedures. In contrast, positron emission tomography (PET) presents a high depth of penetration and the resulting signal is less attenuated, allowing for imaging in-depth tissues. Thus, association of these imaging techniques has the potential to push back the limits of each single modality. Recently, several research groups have been involved in the development of radiolabeled fluorophores with the aim of affording dual-mode PET/OPI probes used in preclinical imaging studies of diverse pathological conditions such as cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, or cardiovascular diseases. Among all the available PET-active radionuclides, 18F stands out as the most widely used for clinical imaging thanks to its advantageous characteristics (t1/2 = 109.77 min; 97% β+ emitter). This review focuses on the recent efforts in the synthesis and radiofluorination of fluorescent scaffolds such as 4,4-difluoro-4-bora-diazaindacenes (BODIPYs), cyanines, and xanthene derivatives and their use in preclinical imaging studies using both PET and OPI technologies.	University of Ottawa Heart Institute, Ottawa, ON K1Y 4W7, Canada	10.3390/molecules25246042	2020	25	24	-	-	6042	-
Lee, Sanghyeop; Kim, Junyeob; Kang, Hyeon; Kang, Do-Young; Park, Jangsik	Genetic Algorithm Based Deep Learning Neural Network Structure and Hyperparameter Optimization	Applied Sciences	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; classification; deep learning; convolutional neural network; genetic algorithm; model optimisation	Alzheimer’s disease is one of the major challenges of population ageing, and diagnosis and prediction of the disease through various biomarkers is the key. While the application of deep learning as imaging technologies has recently expanded across the medical industry, empirical design of these technologies is very difficult. The main reason for this problem is that the performance of the Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) differ greatly depending on the statistical distribution of the input dataset. Different hyperparameters also greatly affect the convergence of the CNN models. With this amount of information, selecting appropriate parameters for the network structure has became a large research area. Genetic Algorithm (GA), is a very popular technique to automatically select a high-performance network architecture. In this paper, we show the possibility of optimising the network architecture using GA, where its search space includes both network structure configuration and hyperparameters. To verify the performance of our Algorithm, we used an amyloid brain image dataset that is used for Alzheimer’s disease diagnosis. As a result, our algorithm outperforms Genetic CNN by 11.73% on a given classification task.	Department of Electronic Engineering, Kyungsung University, Busan 48434, Korea	10.3390/app11020744	2021	11	2	-	-	744	-
Yang, Anna; Kantor, Boris; Chiba-Falek, Ornit	APOE: The New Frontier in the Development of a Therapeutic Target towards Precision Medicine in Late-Onset Alzheimer’s	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	APOE; Alzheimer’s disease; late-onset; gene therapies; antisense oligonucleotides; monoclonal antibodies; gene editing; base editing; beta-amyloid; neurodegenerative disease	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) has a critical unmet medical need. The consensus around the amyloid cascade hypothesis has been guiding pre-clinical and clinical research to focus mainly on targeting beta-amyloid for treating AD. Nevertheless, the vast majority of the clinical trials have repeatedly failed, prompting the urgent need to refocus on other targets and shifting the paradigm of AD drug development towards precision medicine. One such emerging target is apolipoprotein E (APOE), identified nearly 30 years ago as one of the strongest and most reproduceable genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer’s disease (LOAD). An exploration of APOE as a new therapeutic culprit has produced some very encouraging results, proving that the protein holds promise in the context of LOAD therapies. Here, we review the strategies to target APOE based on state-of-the-art technologies such as antisense oligonucleotides, monoclonal antibodies, and gene/base editing. We discuss the potential of these initiatives in advancing the development of novel precision medicine therapies to LOAD.	Division of Translational Brain Sciences, Department of Neurology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA	10.3390/ijms22031244	2021	22	3	-	-	1244	-
Santonocito, Debora; Raciti, Giuseppina; Campisi, Agata; Sposito, Giovanni; Panico, Annamaria; Siciliano, Edy; Sarpietro, Maria; Damiani, Elisabetta; Puglia, Carmelo	Astaxanthin-Loaded Stealth Lipid Nanoparticles (AST-SSLN) as Potential Carriers for the Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease: Formulation Development and Optimization	Nanomaterials	EN	Article	astaxanthin; stealth system; SLN; Alzheimer’s disease; ORAC; parenteral administration	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with marked oxidative stress at the level of the brain. Recent studies indicate that increasing the antioxidant capacity could represent a very promising therapeutic strategy for AD treatment. Astaxanthin (AST), a powerful natural antioxidant, could be a good candidate for AD treatment, although its use in clinical practice is compromised by its high instability. In order to overcome this limit, our attention focused on the development of innovative AST-loaded stealth lipid nanoparticles (AST-SSLNs) able to improve AST bioavailability in the brain. AST-SSLNs prepared by solvent-diffusion technique showed technological parameters suitable for parenteral administration (<200 nm). Formulated nanosystems were characterized by calorimetric studies, while their toxicological profile was evaluated by the MTT assay on the stem cell line OECs (Olfactory Ensheathing Cells). Furthemore, the protective effect of the nanocarriers was assessed by a long-term stability study and a UV stability assay confirming that the lipid shell of the nanocarriers was able to preserve AST concentration in the formulation. SSLNs were also capable of preserving AST’s antioxidant capacity as demonstrated in the oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) assay. In conclusion, these preliminary studies outline that SSLNs could be regarded as promising carriers for systemic administration of compounds such as AST aimed at AD treatment.	Department of Drug Science and Health, University of Catania, Viale Andrea Doria 6, 95125 Catania, Italy	10.3390/nano11020391	2021	11	2	-	-	391	-
Barton, Shawn; To, Eleanor; Rogers, Baxter; Whitmore, Clayton; Uppal, Manjosh; Matsubara, Joanne; Pham, Wellington	Inhalable Thioflavin S for the Detection of Amyloid Beta Deposits in the Retina	Molecules	EN	Article	Alzheimer; molecular imaging; retinal imaging; probes	We present an integrated delivery technology herein employing the aerosolized method to repurpose thioflavin S for imaging amyloid beta (Abeta) deposits in the retina as a surrogate of Abeta in the brain for early detection of Alzheimer’s disease. The data showed that wild type (WT) mice also have Abeta deposits in the retinae, albeit much less than 5XFAD mice. Further, only in 5XFAD mice, significant Abeta deposits were found associated with retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in whole-mount and cross-section data. Furthermore, the fluorescent signal depicted from thioflavin S corroborates with Abeta immunohistochemistry staining information. Overall, this probe delivery via inhalation method is also applicable to other Abeta-binding molecules, such as Congo red, curcumin, and thioflavin T. The advantage of imaging retinal amyloid deposits compared to the brain counterparts is that the eye is easily accessible by in vivo imaging and it reduces the effort to design a probe that must cross the formidable blood-brain barrier.	Vanderbilt University Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN 37232, USA	10.3390/molecules26040835	2021	26	4	-	-	835	-
Piscioneri, Antonella; Morelli, Sabrina; Drioli, Enrico; De Bartolo, Loredana	PLGA Multiplex Membrane Platform for Disease Modelling and Testing of Therapeutic Compounds	Membranes	EN	Article	disease modelling; trans-crocetin neuroprotection; PLGA membrane; membrane systems	A proper validation of an engineered brain microenvironment requires a trade of between the complexity of a cellular construct within the in vitro platform and the simple implementation of the investigational tool. The present work aims to accomplish this challenging balance by setting up an innovative membrane platform that represents a good compromise between a proper mimicked brain tissue analogue combined with an easily accessible and implemented membrane system. Another key aspect of the in vitro modelling disease is the identification of a precise phenotypic onset as a definite hallmark of the pathology that needs to be recapitulated within the implemented membrane system. On the basis of these assumptions, we propose a multiplex membrane system in which the recapitulation of specific neuro-pathological onsets related to Alzheimer’s disease pathologies, namely oxidative stress and β-amyloid1–42 toxicity, allowed us to test the neuroprotective effects of trans-crocetin on damaged neurons. The proposed multiplex membrane platform is therefore quite a versatile tool that allows the integration of neuronal pathological events in combination with the testing of new molecules. The present paper explores the use of this alternative methodology, which, relying on membrane technology approach, allows us to study the basic physiological and pathological behaviour of differentiated neuronal cells, as well as their changing behaviour, in response to new potential therapeutic treatment.	Institute on Membrane Technology (CNR-ITM), Via P. Bucci, Cubo 17/C, 87036 Rende (CS), Italy	10.3390/membranes11020112	2021	11	2	-	-	112	-
De Marchi, Fabiola; Contaldi, Elena; Magistrelli, Luca; Cantello, Roberto; Comi, Cristoforo; Mazzini, Letizia	Telehealth in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Opportunities and Challenges for Patients and Physicians	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	neurodegeneration; neurology; telehealth; telemedicine; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s Disease; Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	Telehealth, by definition, is distributing health-related services while using electronic technologies. This narrative Review describes the technological health services (telemedicine and telemonitoring) for delivering care in neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s Disease, and amyotrophic lateral Sclerosis, among others. This paper aims to illustrate this approach’s primary experience and application, highlighting the strengths and weaknesses, with the goal of understanding which could be the most useful application for each one, in order to facilitate telehealth improvement and use in standard clinical practice. We also described the potential role of the COVID-19 pandemic to speed up this service’s use, avoiding a sudden interruption of medical care.	Department of Neurology and ALS Centre, Traslational Medicine, University of Piemonte Orientale, Maggiore della Carità Hospital, 28100 Novara, Italy	10.3390/brainsci11020237	2021	11	2	-	-	237	-
Preman, Pranav; Alfonso-Triguero, Maria; Alberdi, Elena; Verkhratsky, Alexei; Arranz, Amaia	Astrocytes in Alzheimer’s Disease: Pathological Significance and Molecular Pathways	Cells	EN	Review	astrocyte; Alzheimer´s disease; neurodegeneration; transcriptomics; RNA sequencing (RNA-seq); cellular states	Astrocytes perform a wide variety of essential functions defining normal operation of the nervous system and are active contributors to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer’s among others. Recent data provide compelling evidence that distinct astrocyte states are associated with specific stages of Alzheimer´s disease. The advent of transcriptomics technologies enables rapid progress in the characterisation of such pathological astrocyte states. In this review, we provide an overview of the origin, main functions, molecular and morphological features of astrocytes in physiological as well as pathological conditions related to Alzheimer´s disease. We will also explore the main roles of astrocytes in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer´s disease and summarize main transcriptional changes and altered molecular pathways observed in astrocytes during the course of the disease.	VIB Center for Brain &amp;amp; Disease Research, 3000 Leuven, Belgium	10.3390/cells10030540	2021	10	3	-	-	540	-
Raybould, Rachel; Sims, Rebecca	Searching the Dark Genome for Alzheimer’s Disease Risk Variants	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; long read technology; dark genome; VNTR	Sporadic Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a complex genetic disease, and the leading cause of dementia worldwide. Over the past 3 decades, extensive pioneering research has discovered more than 70 common and rare genetic risk variants. These discoveries have contributed massively to our understanding of the pathogenesis of AD but approximately half of the heritability for AD remains unaccounted for. There are regions of the genome that are not assayed by mainstream genotype and sequencing technology. These regions, known as the Dark Genome, often harbour large structural DNA variants that are likely relevant to disease risk. Here, we describe the dark genome and review current technological and bioinformatics advances that will enable researchers to shed light on these hidden regions of the genome. We highlight the potential importance of the hidden genome in complex disease and how these strategies will assist in identifying the missing heritability of AD. Identification of novel protein-coding structural variation that increases risk of AD will open new avenues for translational research and new drug targets that have the potential for clinical benefit to delay or even prevent clinical symptoms of disease.	UK Dementia Research Institute in Cardiff, Haydn Ellis Building, Cardiff University, Wales CF24 4HQ, UK	10.3390/brainsci11030332	2021	11	3	-	-	332	-
Costamagna, Gianluca; Comi, Giacomo; Corti, Stefania	Advancing Drug Discovery for Neurological Disorders Using iPSC-Derived Neural Organoids	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs); brain organoids; CRISPR-Cas9; drug discovery; disease modeling; neurological diseases; machine learning; single-cell sequencing; bioengineering; organoid imaging	In the last decade, different research groups in the academic setting have developed induced pluripotent stem cell-based protocols to generate three-dimensional, multicellular, neural organoids. Their use to model brain biology, early neural development, and human diseases has provided new insights into the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders, including microcephaly, autism, Parkinson’s disease, and Alzheimer’s disease. However, the adoption of organoid technology for large-scale drug screening in the industry has been hampered by challenges with reproducibility, scalability, and translatability to human disease. Potential technical solutions to expand their use in drug discovery pipelines include Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) to create isogenic models, single-cell RNA sequencing to characterize the model at a cellular level, and machine learning to analyze complex data sets. In addition, high-content imaging, automated liquid handling, and standardized assays represent other valuable tools toward this goal. Though several open issues still hamper the full implementation of the organoid technology outside academia, rapid progress in this field will help to prompt its translation toward large-scale drug screening for neurological disorders.	Dino Ferrari Centre, Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation (DEPT), Neuroscience Section, University of Milan, 20122 Milan, Italy	10.3390/ijms22052659	2021	22	5	-	-	2659	-
López-Ortiz, Susana; Pinto-Fraga, Jose; Valenzuela, Pedro; Martín-Hernández, Juan; Seisdedos, María; García-López, Oscar; Toschi, Nicola; Di Giuliano, Francesca; Garaci, Francesco; Mercuri, Nicola; Nisticò, Robert; Emanuele, Enzo; Lista, Simone; Lucia, Alejandro; Santos-Lozano, Alejandro	Physical Exercise and Alzheimer’s Disease: Effects on Pathophysiological Molecular Pathways of the Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	physical exercise; Alzheimer’s disease; amyloid-β peptide; tau protein; molecular pathways	Alzheimer’s disease (AD), the most common form of neurodegenerative dementia in adults worldwide, is a multifactorial and heterogeneous disorder characterized by the interaction of genetic and epigenetic factors and the dysregulation of numerous intracellular signaling and cellular/molecular pathways. The introduction of the systems biology framework is revolutionizing the study of complex diseases by allowing the identification and integration of cellular/molecular pathways and networks of interaction. Here, we reviewed the relationship between physical activity and the next pathophysiological processes involved in the risk of developing AD, based on some crucial molecular pathways and biological process dysregulated in AD: (1) Immune system and inflammation; (2) Endothelial function and cerebrovascular insufficiency; (3) Apoptosis and cell death; (4) Intercellular communication; (5) Metabolism, oxidative stress and neurotoxicity; (6) DNA damage and repair; (7) Cytoskeleton and membrane proteins; (8) Synaptic plasticity. Moreover, we highlighted the increasingly relevant role played by advanced neuroimaging technologies, including structural/functional magnetic resonance imaging, diffusion tensor imaging, and arterial spin labelling, in exploring the link between AD and physical exercise. Regular physical exercise seems to have a protective effect against AD by inhibiting different pathophysiological molecular pathways implicated in AD.	i+HeALTH Research Group, Department of Health Sciences, European University Miguel de Cervantes, 47012 Valladolid, Spain	10.3390/ijms22062897	2021	22	6	-	-	2897	-
Sukhavasi, Suparshya; Sukhavasi, Susrutha; Elleithy, Khaled; Abuzneid, Shakour; Elleithy, Abdelrahman	Human Body-Related Disease Diagnosis Systems Using CMOS Image Sensors: A Systematic Review	Sensors	EN	Review	CMOS; CMOS image sensors; medical imaging systems; medical applications; biomedical CMOS image sensors; implantable CMOS image sensors; smartphone CMOS image sensors	According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the average human life expectancy is 78.8 years. Specifically, 3.2 million deaths are reported yearly due to heart disease, cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, diabetes, and COVID-19. Diagnosing the disease is mandatory in the current way of living to avoid unfortunate deaths and maintain average life expectancy. CMOS image sensor (CIS) became a prominent technology in assisting the monitoring and clinical diagnosis devices to treat diseases in the medical domain. To address the significance of CMOS image ‘sensors’ usage in disease diagnosis systems, this paper focuses on the CIS incorporated disease diagnosis systems related to vital organs of the human body like the heart, lungs, brain, eyes, intestines, bones, skin, blood, and bacteria cells causing diseases. This literature survey’s main objective is to evaluate the ‘systems’ capabilities and highlight the most potent ones with advantages, disadvantages, and accuracy, that are used in disease diagnosis. This systematic review used PRISMA workflow for study selection methodology, and the parameter-based evaluation is performed on disease diagnosis systems related to the human body’s organs. The corresponding CIS models used in systems are mapped organ-wise, and the data collected over the last decade are tabulated.	Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Bridgeport, Bridgeport, CT 06604, USA	10.3390/s21062098	2021	21	6	-	-	2098	-
Bellini, Gloria; Cipriano, Marco; Comai, Sara; De Angeli, Nicola; Gargano, Jacopo; Gianella, Matteo; Goi, Gianluca; Ingrao, Giovanni; Masciadri, Andrea; Rossi, Gabriele; Salice, Fabio	Understanding Social Behaviour in a Health-Care Facility from Localization Data: A Case Study	Sensors	EN	Article	ambient assisted living; data-driven design; social behaviour prediction; social wellness assessment	The most frequent form of dementia is Alzheimer’s Disease (AD), a severe progressive neurological pathology in which the main cognitive functions of an individual are compromised. Recent studies have found that loneliness and living in isolation are likely to cause an acceleration in the cognitive decline associated with AD. Therefore, understanding social behaviours of AD patients is crucial to promote sociability, thus delaying cognitive decline, preserving independence, and providing a good quality of life. In this work, we analyze the localization data of AD patients living in assisted care homes to gather insights about the social dynamics among them. We use localization data collected by a system based on iBeacon technology comprising two components: a network of antennas scattered throughout the facility and a Bluetooth bracelet worn by the patients. We redefine the Relational Index to capture wandering and casual encounters, these being common phenomena among AD patients, and use the notions of Relational and Popularity Indexes to model, visualize and understand the social behaviour of AD patients. We leverage the data analyses to build predictive tools and applications to enhance social activities scheduling and sociability monitoring and promotion, with the ultimate aim of providing patients with a better quality of life. Predictions and visualizations act as a support for caregivers in activity planning to maximize treatment effects and, hence, slow down the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. We present the Community Behaviour Prediction Table (CBPT), a tool to visualize the estimated values of sociability among patients and popularity of places within a facility. Finally, we show the potential of the system by analyzing the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) lockdown time-frame between February and June 2020 in a specific facility. Through the use of the indexes, we evaluate the effects of the pandemic on the behaviour of the residents, observing no particular impact on sociability even though social distancing was put in place.	Alta Scuola Politecnica (Politecnico di Milano and Politecnico di Torino), 20133 Milano, Italy	10.3390/s21062147	2021	21	6	-	-	2147	-
Wójcik, Daniel; Szczechowiak, Katarzyna; Konopka, Patrycja; Owczarek, Mateusz; Kuzia, Agata; Rydlewska-Liszkowska, Izabela; Pikala, Małgorzata	Informal Dementia Caregivers: Current Technology Use and Acceptance of Technology in Care	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Article	socio-demographic characteristics; informal caregivers; dementia; Alzheimer’s disease; technology	(1) Background: Given the increased social isolation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the challenges faced by informal dementia caregivers have increased. An increasing use of technology, both in care and dementia clinical trials, depends upon caregivers’ abilities as a user. Accordingly, the aim of our study was to verify the current technology (smartphone and computer) use and acceptance in care, regarding socio-demographic variables; (2) Methods: Questionnaires were distributed to 102 dementia caregivers, mostly of patients with moderate dementia; (3) Results: The majority of participants were women (63%), and large number of them used technological devices such as a smartphone (91%) or computer (81%). Results revealed differences between age, gender, and education level on technology acceptance. Interestingly, smartphone use and acceptance seemed to be feasible, regardless of age, whereas computer use was negatively correlated with age. Technology was perceived by respondents as most useful for patients’ activities including locomotion, toileting, and meals; (4) Conclusions: The future of technology use in dementia care should indicate solutions tailored to individual characteristics such as new technology solutions (GPS trackers, smartphone apps, dietary intervention, and meal planning apps).	Department of Management and Logistics in Health Care, Medical University of Lodz, Poland InterDoktorMen Medical University of Lodz, 90-419 Lodz, Poland	10.3390/ijerph18063167	2021	18	6	-	-	3167	-
Vicente-Samper, Jose; Avila-Navarro, Ernesto; Esteve, Vicente; Sabater-Navarro, Jose	Intelligent Monitoring Platform to Evaluate the Overall State of People with Neurological Disorders	Applied Sciences	EN	Article	sensors; electronic platform; machine learning; wearables	The percentage of people around the world who are living with some kind of disability or disorder has increased in recent years and continues to rise due to the aging of the population and the increase in chronic health disorders. People with disabilities find problems in performing some of the activities of daily life, such as working, attending school, or participating in social and recreational events. Neurological disorders such as epilepsy, learning disabilities, autism spectrum disorder, or Alzheimer’s, are among the main diseases that affect a large number of this population. However, thanks to the assistive technologies (AT), these people can improve their performance in some of the obstacles presented by their disorders. This paper presents a new system that aims to help people with neurological disorders providing useful information about their pathologies. This novelty system consists of a platform where the physiological and environmental data acquisition, the feature engineering, and the machine learning algorithms are combined to generate customs predictive models that help the user. Finally, to demonstrate the use of the system and the working methodology employed in the platform, a simple example case is presented. This example case carries out an experimentation that presents a user without neurological problems that shows the versatility of the platform and validates that it is possible to get useful information that can feed an intelligent algorithm.	Department of Systems Engineering and Automation, Miguel Hernández University of Elche, 03202 Elche, Spain	10.3390/app11062789	2021	11	6	-	-	2789	-
Rahman, Md.; Dash, Raju; Sohag, Abdullah; Alam, Mahboob; Rhim, Hyewhon; Ha, Hunjoo; Moon, Il; Uddin, Md; Hannan, Md.	Prospects of Marine Sterols against Pathobiology of Alzheimer’s Disease: Pharmacological Insights and Technological Advances	Marine Drugs	EN	Review	cholesterol homeostasis; marine steroids; fucosterol; neurodegeneration; inflammation; oxidative stress	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a degenerative brain disorder characterized by a progressive decline in memory and cognition, mostly affecting the elderly. Numerous functional bioactives have been reported in marine organisms, and anti-Alzheimer’s agents derived from marine resources have gained attention as a promising approach to treat AD pathogenesis. Marine sterols have been investigated for several health benefits, including anti-cancer, anti-obesity, anti-diabetes, anti-aging, and anti-Alzheimer’s activities, owing to their anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. Marine sterols interact with various proteins and enzymes participating via diverse cellular systems such as apoptosis, the antioxidant defense system, immune response, and cholesterol homeostasis. Here, we briefly overview the potential of marine sterols against the pathology of AD and provide an insight into their pharmacological mechanisms. We also highlight technological advances that may lead to the potential application of marine sterols in the prevention and therapy of AD.	ABEx Bio-Research Center, East Azampur, Dhaka 1230, Bangladesh	10.3390/md19030167	2021	19	3	-	-	167	-
Rienda, Bárbara; Elexpe, Ane; Tolentino-Cortez, Tarson; Gulak, Marina; Bruzos-Cidón, Cristina; Torrecilla, María; Astigarraga, Egoitz; Barreda-Gómez, Gabriel	Analysis of Acetylcholinesterase Activity in Cell Membrane Microarrays of Brain Areas as a Screening Tool to Identify Tissue Specific Inhibitors	Analytica	EN	Article	acetylcholinesterase; microarray; inhibitors; Alzheimer’s disease	Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is responsible for hydrolyzing the acetylcholine neurotransmitter, bringing an end point to cholinergic neurotransmission. Thus, AChE is the primary target of a wide spectrum of compounds used as pesticides, nerve agents or therapeutic drugs for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD). This enzyme is heterogeneously distributed in the brain showing different activity depending on the nervous region. Therefore, the aim of this work is to report a novel technology that enables the simultaneous determination of tissue specific AChE activity, as well as the analysis and screening of specific inhibitors, by using cell membrane microarrays. These microarrays were composed of cell membranes, isolated from 41 tissues, organs and brain areas, that were immobilized over a slide, maintaining the functionality of membrane proteins. To validate this platform, demonstrating its usefulness in drug discovery as a high throughput screening tool, a colorimetric protocol to detect the membrane-bound AChE activity was optimized. Thus, rat cortical and striatal AChE activities were estimated in presence of increased concentrations of AChE inhibitors, and the donepezil effect was assessed simultaneously in 41 tissues and organs, demonstrating the major potential of this microarray’s technology.	Research and Development Division, IMG Pharma Biotech, 48160 Derio, Spain	10.3390/analytica2010003	2021	2	1	-	-	3	-
Abbas, Mohamed	Potential Role of Nanoparticles in Treating the Accumulation of Amyloid-Beta Peptide in Alzheimer’s Patients	Polymers	EN	Review	nanodrugs; Alzheimer’s; amyloid beta-peptide; nanoparticles; lipids; drug delivery	The disorder of Alzheimer’s is marked by progressive pathophysiological neurodegeneration. The amino acid peptides in the amyloid plaques found in the brains of people with Alzheimer’s disease (AD) are known as amyloid-beta (Aβ). Current treatments are not curative, and the effects associated with AD are reduced. Improving treatment results involved the targeting of drugs at optimum therapeutic concentration. Nanotechnology is seen as an unconventional, modern technology that plays a key role in the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. Using nanoparticles, molecular detection, effective drug targeting, and their combination offer high sensitivity. The aim of this review is to shed light on the function and successful role of nanoparticles to resolve Aβ aggregation and thus to help cure Alzheimer’s disease. The analysis divides these nanoparticles into three categories: polymer, lipid, and gold nanoparticles. A thorough comparison was then made between the nanoparticles, which are used according to their role, properties, and size in the procedure. The nanoparticles can prevent the accumulation of Aβ during the efficient delivery of the drug to the cells to treat Alzheimer’s disease. Furthermore, this comparison demonstrated the ability of these nanoparticles to deal efficiently with Alzheimer’s disease. The role of these nanoparticles varied from delivering the drug to brain cells to dealing with the disease-causing peptide.	Department of Electrical Engineering, College of Engineering, King Khalid University, Abha 61421, Saudi Arabia	10.3390/polym13071051	2021	13	7	-	-	1051	-
Brabenec, Tomáš; Maroušková, Anna; Zoubek, Tomáš; Filip, Martin	Residues from Water Precipitation via Ferric Hydroxide Threaten Soil Fertility	Sustainability	EN	Article	food availability; water ethics; phosphorus; bioeconomy; soil fertility	From the moment it was first indicated that use of aluminum chloride during purification of drinking water might be one of the triggers of Alzheimer’s disease, it took only a few years to almost abandon this practice worldwide. Now, two years after the initial evidence was presented that the cheapest possible replacement for aluminum chloride (ferric hydroxide, better known as ferrous sludge) significantly threatens soil fertility, there is almost no action. A robust case study was conducted among European drinking water treatment plants. First, it is reported that some samples of ferrous sludge can reduce phosphorus availability by more than 70%. This creates a precondition for a significant reduction in fertility over a decade. Because the legislation usually responds to similar findings with great delay, the extent to which managers of drinking water treatment plants are willing to change process settings by themselves has also been assessed. The findings obtained allow us to expect that a long continuation of this hazardous practice can be expected, since managers of drinking water treatment plants show little willingness to switch from the ongoing questionable technology (harmful to nutrient cycles in soil) to environmentally favorable (though slightly more costly) solutions.	Department of Corporate Finance, Prague University of Economics and Business, W. Churchill Sq. 1938/4, 130 67 Prague, Czech Republic	10.3390/su13084327	2021	13	8	-	-	4327	-
Albert, Katrina; Niskanen, Jonna; Kälvälä, Sara; Lehtonen, Šárka	Utilising Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells in Neurodegenerative Disease Research: Focus on Glia	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	astrocytes; microglia; oligodendrocytes; induced pluripotent stem cells; transplantation, organoids; neurodegenerative disease; humanized models	Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are a self-renewable pool of cells derived from an organism’s somatic cells. These can then be programmed to other cell types, including neurons. Use of iPSCs in research has been two-fold as they have been used for human disease modelling as well as for the possibility to generate new therapies. Particularly in complex human diseases, such as neurodegenerative diseases, iPSCs can give advantages over traditional animal models in that they more accurately represent the human genome. Additionally, patient-derived cells can be modified using gene editing technology and further transplanted to the brain. Glial cells have recently become important avenues of research in the field of neurodegenerative diseases, for example, in Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease. This review focuses on using glial cells (astrocytes, microglia, and oligodendrocytes) derived from human iPSCs in order to give a better understanding of how these cells contribute to neurodegenerative disease pathology. Using glia iPSCs in in vitro cell culture, cerebral organoids, and intracranial transplantation may give us future insight into both more accurate models and disease-modifying therapies.	Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK	10.3390/ijms22094334	2021	22	9	-	-	4334	-
Lambert, Lester; Grotegut, Stefan; Celeridad, Maria; Gosalia, Palak; Backer, Laurent; Bobkov, Andrey; Salaniwal, Sumeet; Chung, Thomas; Zeng, Fu-Yue; Pass, Ian; Lombroso, Paul; Cosford, Nicholas; Tautz, Lutz	Development of a Robust High-Throughput Screening Platform for Inhibitors of the Striatal-Enriched Tyrosine Phosphatase (STEP)	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	protein tyrosine phosphatase; PTPN5; small-molecule screening; neurodegenerative disorders; Alzheimer’s disease	Many human diseases are the result of abnormal expression or activation of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) and protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs). Not surprisingly, more than 30 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are currently in clinical use and provide unique treatment options for many patients. PTPs on the other hand have long been regarded as “undruggable” and only recently have gained increased attention in drug discovery. Striatal-enriched tyrosine phosphatase (STEP) is a neuron-specific PTP that is overactive in Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders, including Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia, and fragile X syndrome. An emergent model suggests that the increase in STEP activity interferes with synaptic function and contributes to the characteristic cognitive and behavioral deficits present in these diseases. Prior efforts to generate STEP inhibitors with properties that warrant clinical development have largely failed. To identify novel STEP inhibitor scaffolds, we developed a biophysical, label-free high-throughput screening (HTS) platform based on the protein thermal shift (PTS) technology. In contrast to conventional HTS using STEP enzymatic assays, we found the PTS platform highly robust and capable of identifying true hits with confirmed STEP inhibitory activity and selectivity. This new platform promises to greatly advance STEP drug discovery and should be applicable to other PTP targets.	Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, NCI-Designated Cancer Center, 10901 N Torrey Pines Rd, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA	10.3390/ijms22094417	2021	22	9	-	-	4417	-
Chuang, Jen-Hua; Yang, Wen-Chin; Lin, Yenshou	Glutamatergic Neurons Differentiated from Embryonic Stem Cells: An Investigation of Differentiation and Associated Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	glutamatergic neurons; embryonic stem cells; differentiation; neurodegeneration; Alzheimer’s disease	Neurons that have been derived from various types of stem cells have recently undergone significant study due to their potential for use in various aspects of biomedicine. In particular, glutamatergic neurons differentiated from embryonic stem cells (ESCs) potentially have many applications in both basic research and regenerative medicine. This review summarized the literatures published thus far and focused on two areas related to these applications. Firstly, these neurons can be used to investigate neuronal signal transduction during differentiation and this means that the genes/proteins/markers involved in this process can be identified. In this way, the dynamic spatial and temporal changes associated with neuronal morphology can be investigated relatively easily. Such an in vitro system can also be used to study how neurons during neurogenesis integrate into normal tissue. At the same time, the integration, regulation and functions of extracellular matrix secretion, various molecular interactions, various ion channels, the neuronal microenvironment, etc., can be easily traced. Secondly, the disease-related aspects of ESC-derived glutamatergic neurons can also be studied and then applied therapeutically. In the future, greater efforts are needed to explore how ESC-differentiated glutamatergic neurons can be used as a neuronal model for the study of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) mechanistically, to identify possible therapeutic strategies for treating AD, including tissue replacement, and to screen for drugs that can be used to treat AD patients. With all of the modern technology that is available, translational medicine should begin to benefit patients soon.	School of Life Science, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 116, Taiwan	10.3390/ijms22094592	2021	22	9	-	-	4592	-
Bonaventura, Gabriele; Iemmolo, Rosario; Attaguile, Giuseppe; La Cognata, Valentina; Pistone, Brigida; Raudino, Giuseppe; D’Agata, Velia; Cantarella, Giuseppina; Barcellona, Maria; Cavallaro, Sebastiano	iPSCs: A Preclinical Drug Research Tool for Neurological Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	iPSCs; drug development; AD; ALS; PD; FRAX	The development and commercialization of new drugs is an articulated, lengthy, and very expensive process that proceeds through several steps, starting from target identification, screening new leading compounds for testing in preclinical studies, and subsequently in clinical trials to reach the final approval for therapeutic use. Preclinical studies are usually performed using both cell cultures and animal models, although they do not completely resume the complexity of human diseases, in particular neurodegenerative conditions. To this regard, stem cells represent a powerful tool in all steps of drug discovery. The recent advancement in induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSCs) technology has opened the possibility to obtain patient-specific disease models for drug screening and development. Here, we report the use of iPSCs as a disease model for drug development in the contest of neurological disorders, including Alzheimer’s (AD) and Parkinson’s disease (PD), Amyotrophic lateral Sclerosis (ALS), and Fragile X syndrome (FRAX).	Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation (IRIB), Italian National Research Council, 95126 Catania, Italy	10.3390/ijms22094596	2021	22	9	-	-	4596	-
Solje, Eino; Benussi, Alberto; Buratti, Emanuele; Remes, Anne; Haapasalo, Annakaisa; Borroni, Barbara	State-of-the-Art Methods and Emerging Fluid Biomarkers in the Diagnostics of Dementia—A Short Review and Diagnostic Algorithm	Diagnostics	EN	Review	dementia; biomarkers; Alzheimer’s disease; frontotemporal dementia; dementia with Lewy bodies; diagnosis	The most common neurodegenerative dementias include Alzheimer’s disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The correct etiology-based diagnosis is pivotal for clinical management of these diseases as well as for the suitable timing and choosing the accurate disease-modifying therapies when these become available. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)-based methods, detecting altered levels of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Tau, phosphorylated Tau, and Aβ-42 in AD, allowed the wide use of this set of biomarkers in clinical practice. These analyses demonstrate a high diagnostic accuracy in AD but suffer from a relatively restricted usefulness due to invasiveness and lack of prognostic value. In recent years, the development of novel advanced techniques has offered new state-of-the-art opportunities in biomarker discovery. These include single molecule array technology (SIMOA), a tool for non-invasive analysis of ultra-low levels of central nervous system-derived molecules from biofluids, such as CSF or blood, and real-time quaking (RT-QuIC), developed to analyze misfolded proteins. In the present review, we describe the history of methods used in the fluid biomarker analyses of dementia, discuss specific emerging biomarkers with translational potential for clinical use, and suggest an algorithm for the use of new non-invasive blood biomarkers in clinical practice.	Institute of Clinical Medicine-Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, 70211 Kuopio, Finland	10.3390/diagnostics11050788	2021	11	5	-	-	788	-
Basavarajappa, Balapal; Subbanna, Shivakumar	Histone Methylation Regulation in Neurodegenerative Disorders	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	epigenetics; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; Huntington’s disease; Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; neuronal loss and alcohol	Advances achieved with molecular biology and genomics technologies have permitted investigators to discover epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and histone posttranslational modifications, which are critical for gene expression in almost all tissues and in brain health and disease. These advances have influenced much interest in understanding the dysregulation of epigenetic mechanisms in neurodegenerative disorders. Although these disorders diverge in their fundamental causes and pathophysiology, several involve the dysregulation of histone methylation-mediated gene expression. Interestingly, epigenetic remodeling via histone methylation in specific brain regions has been suggested to play a critical function in the neurobiology of psychiatric disorders, including that related to neurodegenerative diseases. Prominently, epigenetic dysregulation currently brings considerable interest as an essential player in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), Huntington’s disease (HD), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and drugs of abuse, including alcohol abuse disorder, where it may facilitate connections between genetic and environmental risk factors or directly influence disease-specific pathological factors. We have discussed the current state of histone methylation, therapeutic strategies, and future perspectives for these disorders. While not somatically heritable, the enzymes responsible for histone methylation regulation, such as histone methyltransferases and demethylases in neurons, are dynamic and reversible. They have become promising potential therapeutic targets to treat or prevent several neurodegenerative disorders. These findings, along with clinical data, may provide links between molecular-level changes and behavioral differences and provide novel avenues through which the epigenome may be targeted early on in people at risk for neurodegenerative disorders.	Division of Analytical Psychopharmacology, Nathan Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research, Orangeburg, NY 10962, USA	10.3390/ijms22094654	2021	22	9	-	-	4654	-
La Cognata, Valentina; Morello, Giovanna; Cavallaro, Sebastiano	Omics Data and Their Integrative Analysis to Support Stratified Medicine in Neurodegenerative Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	neurodegenerative diseases; multi-omics; stratified medicine	Molecular and clinical heterogeneity is increasingly recognized as a common characteristic of neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), such as Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This heterogeneity makes difficult the development of early diagnosis and effective treatment approaches, as well as the design and testing of new drugs. As such, the stratification of patients into meaningful disease subgroups, with clinical and biological relevance, may improve disease management and the development of effective treatments. To this end, omics technologies—such as genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics—are contributing to offer a more comprehensive view of molecular pathways underlying the development of NDs, helping to differentiate subtypes of patients based on their specific molecular signatures. In this article, we discuss how omics technologies and their integration have provided new insights into the molecular heterogeneity underlying the most prevalent NDs, aiding to define early diagnosis and progression markers as well as therapeutic targets that can translate into stratified treatment approaches, bringing us closer to the goal of personalized medicine in neurology.	Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation (IRIB), Italian National Research Council (CNR), 95126 Catania, Italy	10.3390/ijms22094820	2021	22	9	-	-	4820	-
Machado, Savanna; Tavares, João; Martins, Márcio; Barbosa, Jorge; González, Gabriel; Leithardt, Valderi	Ambient Intelligence Based on IoT for Assisting People with Alzheimer’s Disease Through Context Histories	Electronics	EN	Article	ambient intelligence; Internet of Things; context; prediction; context histories; Alzheimer’s disease	New Internet of Things (IoT) applications are enabling the development of projects that help with monitoring people with different diseases in their daily lives. Alzheimer’s is a disease that affects neurological functions and needs support to maintain maximum independence and security of patients during this stage of life, as the cure and reversal of symptoms have not yet been discovered. The IoT-based monitoring system provides the caregivers’ support in monitoring people with Alzheimer’s disease (AD). This paper presents an ontology-based computational model that receives physiological data from external IoT applications, allowing identification of potentially dangerous behaviors for patients with AD. The main scientific contribution of this work is the specification of a model focusing on Alzheimer’s disease using the analysis of context histories and context prediction, which, considering the state of the art, is the only one that uses analysis of context histories to perform predictions. In this research, we also propose a simulator to generate activities of the daily life of patients, allowing the creation of data sets. These data sets were used to evaluate the contributions of the model and were generated according to the standardization of the ontology. The simulator generated 1026 scenarios applied to guide the predictions, which achieved average accurary of 97.44%. The experiments also allowed the learning of 20 relevant lessons on technological, medical, and methodological aspects that are recorded in this article.	Applied Computing Graduate Program, University of Vale do Rio dos Sinos, Av. Unisinos 950, Bairro Cristo Rei, São Leopoldo RS 93022-750, Brazil	10.3390/electronics10111260	2021	10	11	-	-	1260	-
Gillani, Nazia; Arslan, Tughrul	Intelligent Sensing Technologies for the Diagnosis, Monitoring and Therapy of Alzheimer’s Disease: A Systematic Review	Sensors	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; intelligent sensors; smart sensors; smart devices; robots; smart homes; remote health monitoring; activity monitoring; user-centred design	Alzheimer’s disease is a lifelong progressive neurological disorder. It is associated with high disease management and caregiver costs. Intelligent sensing systems have the capability to provide context-aware adaptive feedback. These can assist Alzheimer’s patients with, continuous monitoring, functional support and timely therapeutic interventions for whom these are of paramount importance. This review aims to present a summary of such systems reported in the extant literature for the management of Alzheimer’s disease. Four databases were searched, and 253 English language articles were identified published between the years 2015 to 2020. Through a series of filtering mechanisms, 20 articles were found suitable to be included in this review. This study gives an overview of the depth and breadth of the efficacy as well as the limitations of these intelligent systems proposed for Alzheimer’s. Results indicate two broad categories of intelligent technologies, distributed systems and self-contained devices. Distributed systems base their outcomes mostly on long-term monitoring activity patterns of individuals whereas handheld devices give quick assessments through touch, vision and voice. The review concludes by discussing the potential of these intelligent technologies for clinical practice while highlighting future considerations for improvements in the design of these solutions for Alzheimer’s disease.	School of Engineering, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3FF, UK	10.3390/s21124249	2021	21	12	-	-	4249	-
Hyun, Soonsil; Shin, Dongyun	Chemical-Mediated Targeted Protein Degradation in Neurodegenerative Diseases	Life	EN	Review	neurodegenerative disease; protein degradation; drug design; ubiquitin-proteasome system; autophagy; protac	Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease, Huntington’s disease, and Parkinson’s disease, are a class of diseases that lead to dysfunction of cognition and mobility. Aggregates of misfolded proteins such as β-amyloid, tau, α-synuclein, and polyglutamates are known to be among the main causes of neurodegenerative diseases; however, they are considered to be some of the most challenging drug targets because they cannot be modulated by conventional small-molecule agents. Recently, the degradation of target proteins by small molecules has emerged as a new therapeutic modality and has garnered the interest of the researchers in the pharmaceutical industry. Bifunctional molecules that recruit target proteins to a cellular protein degradation machinery, such as the ubiquitin–proteasome system and autophagy–lysosome pathway, have been designed. The representative targeted protein degradation technologies include molecular glues, proteolysis-targeting chimeras, hydrophobic tagging, autophagy-targeting chimeras, and autophagosome-tethering compounds. Although these modalities have been shown to degrade many disease-related proteins, such technologies are expected to be potentially important for neurogenerative diseases caused by protein aggregation. Herein, we review the recent progress in chemical-mediated targeted protein degradation toward the discovery of drugs for neurogenerative diseases.	Gachon Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy, Gachon University, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon 21936, Korea	10.3390/life11070607	2021	11	7	-	-	607	-
Zhang, Xiaoyu; Zhang, Xiancheng; Zhong, Manli; Zhao, Pu; Guo, Chuang; Li, You; Xu, He; Wang, Tao; Gao, Huiling	A Novel Cu(II)-Binding Peptide Identified by Phage Display Inhibits Cu2+-Mediated Aβ Aggregation	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	phage display; metal-binding peptide; Cu(II); Aβ; Alzheimer’s disease	Copper (Cu) has been implicated in the progression of Alzheimer’s disease (AD), and aggregation of Cu and amyloid β peptide (Aβ) are considered key pathological features of AD. Metal chelators are considered to be potential therapeutic agents for AD because of their capacity to reduce metal ion-induced Aβ aggregation through the regulation of metal ion distribution. Here, we used phage display technology to screen, synthesize, and evaluate a novel Cu(II)-binding peptide that specifically blocked Cu-triggered Aβ aggregation. The Cu(II)-binding peptide (S-A-Q-I-A-P-H, PCu) identified from the phage display heptapeptide library was used to explore the mechanism of PCu inhibition of Cu2+-mediated Aβ aggregation and Aβ production. In vitro experiments revealed that PCu directly inhibited Cu2+-mediated Aβ aggregation and regulated copper levels to reduce biological toxicity. Furthermore, PCu reduced the production of Aβ by inhibiting Cu2+-induced BACE1 expression and improving Cu(II)-mediated cell oxidative damage. Cell culture experiments further demonstrated that PCu had relatively low toxicity. This Cu(II)-binding peptide that we have identified using phage display technology provides a potential therapeutic approach to prevent or treat AD.	College of Life and Health Sciences, Northeastern University, Shenyang 110819, China	10.3390/ijms22136842	2021	22	13	-	-	6842	-
Dulewicz, Maciej; Kulczyńska-Przybik, Agnieszka; Słowik, Agnieszka; Borawska, Renata; Mroczko, Barbara	Fatty Acid Binding Protein 3 (FABP3) and Apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4) as Lipid Metabolism-Related Biomarkers of Alzheimer’s Disease	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Article	FABP3; ApoE4; CSF biomarkers; lipids metabolism	Background: Lipid metabolism-related biomarkers gain increasing researchers interest in the field of neurodegenerative disorders. Mounting evidence have indicated the role of fatty acid-binding proteins and pathology lipid metabolism in Alzheimer’s Disease (AD). The imbalance of fatty acids (FA) and lipids may negatively affect brain functions related to neurodegenerative disorders. The ApoE4 and FABP3 proteins may reflect processes leading to neurodegeneration. This study aimed to evaluate the relationship between the CSF levels of FABP3 and ApoE4 proteins and cognitive decline as well as the diagnostic performance of these candidate biomarkers in AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Methods: A total of 70 subjects, including patients with AD, MCI, and non-demented controls, were enrolled in the study. CSF concentrations of FABP3 and ApoE4 were measured using immunoassay technology. Results: Significantly higher CSF concentrations of FABP3 and ApoE4 were observed in AD patients compared to MCI subjects and individuals without cognitive impairment. Both proteins were inversely associated with Aβ42/40 ratio: ApoE4 (rho = −0.472, p < 0.001), and FABP3 (rho = −0.488, p < 0.001) in the whole study group, respectively. Additionally, FABP3 was negatively correlated with Mini-Mental State Examination score in the whole study cohort (rho = −0.585 p < 0.001). Conclusion: Presented results indicate the pivotal role of FABP3 and ApoE4 in AD pathology as lipid-related biomarkers, but studies on larger cohorts are needed.	Department of Neurodegeneration Diagnostics, Medical University of Bialystok, 15-269 Bialystok, Poland	10.3390/jcm10143009	2021	10	14	-	-	3009	-
Wu, Ying-Chieh; Sonninen, Tuuli-Maria; Peltonen, Sanni; Koistinaho, Jari; Lehtonen, Šárka	Blood–Brain Barrier and Neurodegenerative Diseases—Modeling with iPSC-Derived Brain Cells	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC); blood–brain barrier (BBB); neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs)	The blood–brain barrier (BBB) regulates the delivery of oxygen and important nutrients to the brain through active and passive transport and prevents neurotoxins from entering the brain. It also has a clearance function and removes carbon dioxide and toxic metabolites from the central nervous system (CNS). Several drugs are unable to cross the BBB and enter the CNS, adding complexity to drug screens targeting brain disorders. A well-functioning BBB is essential for maintaining healthy brain tissue, and a malfunction of the BBB, linked to its permeability, results in toxins and immune cells entering the CNS. This impairment is associated with a variety of neurological diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease. Here, we summarize current knowledge about the BBB in neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, we focus on recent progress of using human-induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived models to study the BBB. We review the potential of novel stem cell-based platforms in modeling the BBB and address advances and key challenges of using stem cell technology in modeling the human BBB. Finally, we highlight future directions in this area.	Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki, 00014 Helsinki, Finland	10.3390/ijms22147710	2021	22	14	-	-	7710	-
Del Pinto, Rita; Grassi, Davide; Bocale, Raffaella; Carubbi, Francesco; Ferri, Claudio; Desideri, Giovambattista	Blood Pressure Profiles and Cognitive Function from Adulthood to Old Age: Chasing a Golden Middle Way?	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Review	hypertension; hypotension; dementia; cognitive impairment; antihypertensive medications	With the demographic shift toward advanced ages, it is imperative to understand the biological mechanisms behind common, disabling age-related diseases such as cognitive impairment in its mild form to overt dementia. Hypertension, a major cardiovascular risk factor, is epidemiologically linked to vascular and Alzheimer-type dementia, with possible mechanisms being atherosclerotic macro- and microvascular damage leading to neuronal cell death, as well as proinflammatory events responsible for neurodegeneration. Nevertheless, there is currently a knowledge gap as to which population to target, what the diagnostics test, and how to manage early pathogenic events in order to prevent such a dramatic and disabling condition. While clinical trials data support the benefit of active BP control with antihypertensive medications on the risk of future cognitive impairment, hypotension appears to be related to accelerated cognitive decline in both the fit and the cognitively frail elderly. Dedicated, technologically advanced studies assessing the relation of BP with dementia are needed to clarify the pathophysiological mechanisms in the association before a tailored preventive, diagnostic, and therapeutic approach to one of the most widespread modern medical challenges becomes a reality.	Department of Life, Health and Environmental Sciences, University of L’Aquila, 67100 L’Aquila, Italy	10.3390/jcm10153243	2021	10	15	-	-	3243	-
Godefroy, Valérie; Levy, Richard; Bouzigues, Arabella; Rametti-Lacroux, Armelle; Migliaccio, Raffaella; Batrancourt, Bénédicte	ECOCAPTURE@HOME: Protocol for the Remote Assessment of Apathy and Its Everyday-Life Consequences	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Study Protocol	apathy; Alzheimer disease; fronto-temporal dementia; patient-caregiver dyads; remote monitoring; sensors; acceleration; electrodermal activity; blood volume pulse	Apathy, a common neuropsychiatric symptom associated with dementia, has a strong impact on patients’ and caregivers’ quality of life. However, it is still poorly understood and hard to define. The main objective of the ECOCAPTURE programme is to define a behavioural signature of apathy using an ecological approach. Within this program, ECOCAPTURE@HOME is an observational study which aims to validate a method based on new technologies for the remote monitoring of apathy in real life. For this study, we plan to recruit 60 couples: 20 patient-caregiver dyads in which patients suffer from behavioral variant Fronto-Temporal Dementia, 20 patient-caregiver dyads in which patients suffer from Alzheimer Disease and 20 healthy control couples. These dyads will be followed for 28 consecutive days via multi-sensor bracelets collecting passive data (acceleration, electrodermal activity, blood volume pulse). Active data will also be collected by questionnaires on a smartphone application. Using a pool of metrics extracted from these passive and active data, we will validate a measurement model for three behavioural markers of apathy (i.e., daytime activity, quality of sleep, and emotional arousal). The final purpose is to facilitate the follow-up and precise diagnosis of apathy, towards a personalised treatment of this condition within everyday life.	Sorbonne Université, Institut du Cerveau—Paris Brain Institute—ICM, Inserm, CNRS, AP-HP, Hôpital de la Pitié Salpêtrière, F-75013 Paris, France	10.3390/ijerph18157824	2021	18	15	-	-	7824	-
Trudler, Dorit; Ghatak, Swagata; Lipton, Stuart	Emerging hiPSC Models for Drug Discovery in Neurodegenerative Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	neurodegeneration; Alzheimer’s disease	Neurodegenerative diseases affect millions of people worldwide and are characterized by the chronic and progressive deterioration of neural function. Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Huntington’s disease (HD), represent a huge social and economic burden due to increasing prevalence in our aging society, severity of symptoms, and lack of effective disease-modifying therapies. This lack of effective treatments is partly due to a lack of reliable models. Modeling neurodegenerative diseases is difficult because of poor access to human samples (restricted in general to postmortem tissue) and limited knowledge of disease mechanisms in a human context. Animal models play an instrumental role in understanding these diseases but fail to comprehensively represent the full extent of disease due to critical differences between humans and other mammals. The advent of human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) technology presents an advantageous system that complements animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. Coupled with advances in gene-editing technologies, hiPSC-derived neural cells from patients and healthy donors now allow disease modeling using human samples that can be used for drug discovery.	Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center and Department of Molecular Medicine, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA	10.3390/ijms22158196	2021	22	15	-	-	8196	-
Zhang, Zhao; Li, Guangfei; Xu, Yong; Tang, Xiaoying	Application of Artificial Intelligence in the MRI Classification Task of Human Brain Neurological and Psychiatric Diseases: A Scoping Review	Diagnostics	EN	Review	artificial intelligence; machine learning; deep learning; human brain-related diseases; magnetic resonance image	Artificial intelligence (AI) for medical imaging is a technology with great potential. An in-depth understanding of the principles and applications of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), machine learning (ML), and deep learning (DL) is fundamental for developing AI-based algorithms that can meet the requirements of clinical diagnosis and have excellent quality and efficiency. Moreover, a more comprehensive understanding of applications and opportunities would help to implement AI-based methods in an ethical and sustainable manner. This review first summarizes recent research advances in ML and DL techniques for classifying human brain magnetic resonance images. Then, the application of ML and DL methods to six typical neurological and psychiatric diseases is summarized, including Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), major depressive disorder (MDD), schizophrenia (SCZ), attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Finally, the limitations of the existing research are discussed, and possible future research directions are proposed.	715-3 Teaching Building No.5, Department of Biomedical Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Beijing Institute of Technology, 5 South Zhongguancun Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100081, China	10.3390/diagnostics11081402	2021	11	8	-	-	1402	-
Bonaventura, Gabriele; Munafò, Antonio; Bellanca, Carlo; La Cognata, Valentina; Iemmolo, Rosario; Attaguile, Giuseppe; Di Mauro, Rosaria; Di Benedetto, Giulia; Cantarella, Giuseppina; Barcellona, Maria; Cavallaro, Sebastiano; Bernardini, Renato	Stem Cells: Innovative Therapeutic Options for Neurodegenerative Diseases?	Cells	EN	Review	stem cell therapy; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; immunomodulation	Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by the progressive loss of structure and/or function of both neurons and glial cells, leading to different degrees of pathology and loss of cognition. The hypothesis of circuit reconstruction in the damaged brain via direct cell replacement has been pursued extensively so far. In this context, stem cells represent a useful option since they provide tissue restoration through the substitution of damaged neuronal cells with exogenous stem cells and create a neuro-protective environment through the release of bioactive molecules for healthy neurons, as well. These peculiar properties of stem cells are opening to potential therapeutic strategies for the treatment of severe neurodegenerative disorders, for which the absence of effective treatment options leads to an increasingly socio-economic burden. Currently, the introduction of new technologies in the field of stem cells and the implementation of alternative cell tissues sources are pointing to exciting frontiers in this area of research. Here, we provide an update of the current knowledge about source and administration routes of stem cells, and review light and shadows of cells replacement therapy for the treatment of the three main neurodegenerative disorders (Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson’s, and Alzheimer’s disease).	Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation (IRIB), Italian National Research Council, 95126 Catania, Italy	10.3390/cells10081992	2021	10	8	-	-	1992	-
Nguyen, Van; Wang, San-Lang; Nguyen, Anh; Phan, Tu; Techato, Kuaanan; Pradit, Siriporn	Bioproduction of Prodigiosin from Fishery Processing Waste Shrimp Heads and Evaluation of Its Potential Bioactivities	Fishes	EN	Article	fish industry waste; shrimp exoskeleton; marine chitinous wastes; microbial technology; prodigiosin; antioxidants; anti-Alzheimer activity; docking study	The aim of this work was to reuse a fish processing waste, shrimp head powder (SHP), for the production of prodigiosin (PG) via microbial technology and to assess its potential bioactivities. PG was produced in a 12 L-bioreactor system, and the highest PG productivity of 6310 mg L−1 was achieved when Serratia marcescens CC17 was used for fermentation in a novel designed medium (6.75 L) containing 1.5% C/N source (SHP/casein = 9/1), 0.02% K2SO4, ans 0.025% Ca3(PO4)2, with initial pH 7.0, and fermentation was performed at 28 °C for 8 h. The purified PG showed moderate antioxidants, efficient anti-NO (anti-nitric oxide), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activities. In a docking study, PG showed better binding energy scores (−12.3 kcal/mol) and more interactions (6 linkages) with several prominent amino acids in the biding sites on AChE that were superior to those of Berberine chloride (−10.8 kcal/mol and one linkage). Notably, this is the first investigation using shrimp heads for the mass bioproduction of PG with high productivity, and Ca3(PO4)2 salt was also newly found to significantly enhance PG production by S. marcescens. This study also provided available data on the anti-NO and anti-AChE effects of PG, especially from the docking simulation PG towards AChE that was described for the first time in this study. The above results suggest that SHP is a good material for the cost-effective bioproduction of PG, which is a potential candidate for anti-NO and anti-Alzheimer drugs.	Faculty of Environmental Management, Prince of Songkla University, Hat Yai District, Songkhla 90110, Thailand	10.3390/fishes6030030	2021	6	3	-	-	30	-
Ozawa, Hitoshi; Miyazawa, Taiki; Miyazawa, Teruo	Effects of Dietary Food Components on Cognitive Functions in Older Adults	Nutrients	EN	Review	aging; brain lipids; cognitive function; dietary food components; phospholipids; polyphenols; older adults; oxidative stress; reactive oxygen species; vitamins	Population aging has recently been an important issue as the number of elderly people is growing worldwide every year, and the extension of social security costs is financially costly. The increase in the number of elderly people with cognitive decline is a serious problem related to the aging of populations. Therefore, it is necessary to consider not only physical care but also cognitive patterns in the future care of older adults. Since food contains a variety of bioactive substances, dietary patterns may help improve age-related cognitive decline. However, the relationship between cognitive function and individual food components remains ambiguous as no clear efficacy or mechanism has been confirmed. Against this background, this review summarizes previous reports on the biological process of cognitive decline in the elderly and the relationship between individual compounds in foods and cognitive function, as well as the role of individual components of food in cognitive function, in the following order: lipids, carotenoids, vitamins, phenolic compounds, amino acids, peptides, and proteins. Based on the research presented in this review, a proper diet that preserves cognitive function has the potential to improve age-related cognitive decline, Alzheimer’s disease, and Parkinson’s disease. Hopefully, this review will help to trigger the development of new foods and technologies that improve aging and cognitive functions and extend the healthy life span.	New Industry Creation Hatchery Center (NICHe), Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8579, Japan	10.3390/nu13082804	2021	13	8	-	-	2804	-
Liao, Chunyan; Xu, Jinying; Chen, Yu; Ip, Nancy	Retinal Dysfunction in Alzheimer’s Disease and Implications for Biomarkers	Biomolecules	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; retinal abnormality; biomarker; amyloid-beta; tau; vascular changes	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that manifests as cognitive deficits and memory decline, especially in old age. Several biomarkers have been developed to monitor AD progression. Given that the retina and brain share some similarities including features related to anatomical composition and neurological functions, the retina is closely associated with the progression of AD. Herein, we review the evidence of retinal dysfunction in AD, particularly at the early stage, together with the underlying molecular mechanisms. Furthermore, we compared the retinal pathologies of AD and other ophthalmological diseases and summarized potential retinal biomarkers measurable by existing technologies for detecting AD, providing insights for the future development of diagnostic tools.	Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Brain Connectome and Manipulation, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Translational Research for Brain Diseases, The Brain Cognition and Brain Disease Institute, Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute of Brain Science—Shenzhen Fundamental Research Institutions, Shenzhen 518055, China	10.3390/biom11081215	2021	11	8	-	-	1215	-
Weems, Jacy; Rhodes, Shana; Powers, James	Dementia Caregiver Virtual Support—An Implementation Evaluation of Two Pragmatic Models during COVID-19	Geriatrics	EN	Article	caregiver support; telehealth; dementia care; COVID-19	Caregivers of people with Alzheimer’s and related dementias (ADRD) require support. Organizations have pivoted from traditional in-person support groups to virtual care in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. We describe two model programs and their pragmatic implementation of virtual care platforms for ADRD caregiver support. A mixed methods analysis of quantitative outcomes as well as a thematic analysis from semi-structured interviews of facilitators was performed as part of a pragmatic quality improvement project to enhance delivery of virtual support services for ADRD caregivers. Implementation differed among individual organizations but was well received by facilitators and caregivers. While virtual platforms can present challenges, older adults appreciated the strength of group facilitators and reported enhanced connectedness related to virtual support. Barriers to success include the limitations of virtual programming, including technological issues and distractions from program delivery. Virtual support can extend outreach, addressing access and providing safe care during a pandemic. Implementation differs among organizations; however, some elements of virtual support may be long-lasting.	Department of Health Policy, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, TN 37212, USA	10.3390/geriatrics6030080	2021	6	3	-	-	80	-
Limone, Pierpaolo; Toto, Giusi	Psychological and Emotional Effects of Digital Technology on Children in COVID-19 Pandemic	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	digital technology; brain condition; neuropsychological effects; COVID-19	COVID-19 has caused obstacles in continuing normal life almost everywhere in the world by causing the implementation of social distancing and eventually imposing the lockdown. This has become the reason for the increase in technology usage in daily life for professional work as well as for entertainment purposes. There has been an increased prevalence of technology usage in adolescents and children during lockdown leaving its impact on their lives either in a positive or negative aspect. The overall documented percentage increase of technology usage in children was about 15%, of which smartphone usage has 61.7% of prevalence. Disturbance in brain functioning is suggested to be originated by compromise of neuroplasticity of the nerves. The radiofrequency (RF) radiations emitting from the smartphone are of doubtful concern as a brain tumor risk factor in children. The increased usage can have effects on brain functioning that will compromise sleep and cognitive abilities and develop risk for certain mental illnesses including, but not limited to, depression, anxiety, Alzheimer’s disease, and attention-deficit/hyperactive disorder (ADHD). Despite being a threat for developing mental illness, video games are proven to reduce depression and anxiety, and increase creativity, skills, and cognition in children. The increased usage of technology can have a positive and negative impact on the mental development of adolescents and children depending on the trends in the usage. However, parents should be monitoring their children’s mental health and behavior in these difficult times of pandemic.	Department of Humanistic Studies, University of Foggia, 71121 Foggia, Italy	10.3390/brainsci11091126	2021	11	9	-	-	1126	-
M., Supriya; Chattu, Vijay	A Review of Artificial Intelligence, Big Data, and Blockchain Technology Applications in Medicine and Global Health	Big Data and Cognitive Computing	EN	Review	big data; blockchain; machine learning; artificial intelligence; healthcare; Alzheimer’s disease; health technology; COVID-19; cancers; internet of things	Artificial intelligence (AI) programs are applied to methods such as diagnostic procedures, treatment protocol development, patient monitoring, drug development, personalized medicine in healthcare, and outbreak predictions in global health, as in the case of the current COVID-19 pandemic. Machine learning (ML) is a field of AI that allows computers to learn and improve without being explicitly programmed. ML algorithms can also analyze large amounts of data called Big data through electronic health records for disease prevention and diagnosis. Wearable medical devices are used to continuously monitor an individual’s health status and store it in cloud computing. In the context of a newly published study, the potential benefits of sophisticated data analytics and machine learning are discussed in this review. We have conducted a literature search in all the popular databases such as Web of Science, Scopus, MEDLINE/PubMed and Google Scholar search engines. This paper describes the utilization of concepts underlying ML, big data, blockchain technology and their importance in medicine, healthcare, public health surveillance, case estimations in COVID-19 pandemic and other epidemics. The review also goes through the possible consequences and difficulties for medical practitioners and health technologists in designing futuristic models to improve the quality and well-being of human lives.	Department of Information and Communication Engineering, Anna University, Chennai 600025, India	10.3390/bdcc5030041	2021	5	3	-	-	41	-
Plonka, Alexandra; Mouton, Aurélie; Macoir, Joël; Tran, Thi-Mai; Derremaux, Alexandre; Robert, Philippe; Manera, Valeria; Gros, Auriane	Primary Progressive Aphasia: Use of Graphical Markers for an Early and Differential Diagnosis	Brain Sciences	EN	Article	primary progressive aphasia; Alzheimer’s disease; graphical markers; graphical parameters; writing pressure; differential diagnosis	Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) brings together neurodegenerative pathologies whose main characteristic is to start with a progressive language disorder. PPA diagnosis is often delayed in non-specialised clinical settings. With the technologies’ development, new writing parameters can be extracted, such as the writing pressure on a touch pad. Despite some studies having highlighted differences between patients with typical Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and healthy controls, writing parameters in PPAs are understudied. The objective was to verify if the writing pressure in different linguistic and non-linguistic tasks can differentiate patients with PPA from patients with AD and healthy subjects. Patients with PPA (n = 32), patients with AD (n = 22) and healthy controls (n = 26) were included in this study. They performed a set of handwriting tasks on an iPad® digital tablet, including linguistic, cognitive non-linguistic, and non-cognitive non-linguistic tasks. Average and maximum writing pressures were extracted for each task. We found significant differences in writing pressure, between healthy controls and patients with PPA, and between patients with PPA and AD. However, the classification of performances was dependent on the nature of the tasks. These results suggest that measuring writing pressure in graphical tasks may improve the early diagnosis of PPA, and the differential diagnosis between PPA and AD.	Département d’Orthophonie de Nice, Faculté de Médecine, Université Côte d’Azur, 06000 Nice, France	10.3390/brainsci11091198	2021	11	9	-	-	1198	-
Abyadeh, Morteza; Gupta, Vivek; Paulo, Joao; Gupta, Veer; Chitranshi, Nitin; Godinez, Angela; Saks, Danit; Hasan, Mafruha; Amirkhani, Ardeshir; McKay, Matthew; Salekdeh, Ghasem; Haynes, Paul; Graham, Stuart; Mirzaei, Mehdi	A Proteomic View of Cellular and Molecular Effects of Cannabis	Biomolecules	EN	Review	cannabis; cannabinoids; marijuana; tetrahydrocannabinol; cannabidiol; proteomics	Cannabis (Cannabis sativa), popularly known as marijuana, is the most commonly used psychoactive substance and is considered illicit in most countries worldwide. However, a growing body of research has provided evidence of the therapeutic properties of chemical components of cannabis known as cannabinoids against several diseases including Alzheimer’s disease (AD), multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and glaucoma; these have prompted changes in medicinal cannabis legislation. The relaxation of legal restrictions and increased socio-cultural acceptance has led to its increase in both medicinal and recreational usage. Several biochemically active components of cannabis have a range of effects on the biological system. There is an urgent need for more research to better understand the molecular and biochemical effects of cannabis at a cellular level, to understand fully its implications as a pharmaceutical drug. Proteomics technology is an efficient tool to rigorously elucidate the mechanistic effects of cannabis on the human body in a cell and tissue-specific manner, drawing conclusions associated with its toxicity as well as therapeutic benefits, safety and efficacy profiles. This review provides a comprehensive overview of both in vitro and in vivo proteomic studies involving the cellular and molecular effects of cannabis and cannabis-derived compounds.	ProGene Technologies Pty Ltd., Macquarie Park, Sydney, NSW 2113, Australia	10.3390/biom11101411	2021	11	10	-	-	1411	-
Dulewicz, Maciej; Kulczyńska-Przybik, Agnieszka; Słowik, Agnieszka; Borawska, Renata; Mroczko, Barbara	Neurogranin and Neuronal Pentraxin Receptor as Synaptic Dysfunction Biomarkers in Alzheimer’s Disease	Journal of Clinical Medicine	EN	Article	neurogranin; neuronal pentraxins receptor; CSF biomarkers; synaptic proteins; Alzheimer’s disease; patients	Synaptic loss and dysfunction are one of the earliest signs of neurodegeneration associated with cognitive decline in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). It seems that by assessing proteins related to synapses, one may reflect their dysfunction and improve the understanding of neurobiological processes in the early stage of the disease. To our best knowledge, this is the first study that analyzes the CSF concentrations of two synaptic proteins together, such as neurogranin (Ng) and neuronal pentraxins receptor (NPTXR) in relation to neurochemical dementia biomarkers in Alzheimer’s disease. Methods: Ng, NPTXR and classical AD biomarkers concentrations were measured in the CSF of patients with AD and non-demented controls (CTRL) using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Luminex xMAP technology. Results: The CSF level of Ng was significantly higher, whereas the NPTXR was significantly lower in the AD patients than in cognitively healthy controls. As a first, we calculated the NPTXR/Ng ratio as an indicator of synaptic disturbance. The patients with AD presented a significantly decreased NPTXR/Ng ratio. The correlation was observed between both proteins in the AD and the whole study group. Furthermore, the relationship between the Ng level and pTau181 was found in the AD group of patients. Conclusions: The Ng and NPTXR concentrations in CSF are promising synaptic dysfunction biomarkers reflecting pathological changes in AD.	Department of Neurodegeneration Diagnostics, Medical University of Bialystok, 15-269 Bialystok, Poland	10.3390/jcm10194575	2021	10	19	-	-	4575	-
Wang, Jing; Cao, Hong	Zebrafish and Medaka: Important Animal Models for Human Neurodegenerative Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	zebrafish; medaka; disease models; neurodegenerative	Animal models of human neurodegenerative disease have been investigated for several decades. In recent years, zebrafish (Danio rerio) and medaka (Oryzias latipes) have become popular in pathogenic and therapeutic studies about human neurodegenerative diseases due to their small size, the optical clarity of embryos, their fast development, and their suitability to large-scale therapeutic screening. Following the emergence of a new generation of molecular biological technologies such as reverse and forward genetics, morpholino, transgenesis, and gene knockout, many human neurodegenerative disease models, such as Parkinson’s, Huntington’s, and Alzheimer’s, were constructed in zebrafish and medaka. These studies proved that zebrafish and medaka genes are functionally conserved in relation to their human homologues, so they exhibit similar neurodegenerative phenotypes to human beings. Therefore, fish are a suitable model for the investigation of pathologic mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases and for the large-scale screening of drugs for potential therapy. In this review, we summarize the studies in modelling human neurodegenerative diseases in zebrafish and medaka in recent years.	State Key Laboratory of Freshwater Ecology and Biotechnology, Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Donghu South Road 7#, Wuhan 430072, China	10.3390/ijms221910766	2021	22	19	-	-	10766	-
Łasut-Szyszka, Barbara; Małachowska, Beata; Gdowicz-Kłosok, Agnieszka; Krześniak, Małgorzata; Głowala-Kosińska, Magdalena; Zajkowicz, Artur; Rusin, Marek	Transcriptome Analysis of Cells Exposed to Actinomycin D and Nutlin-3a Reveals New Candidate p53-Target Genes and Indicates That CHIR-98014 Is an Important Inhibitor of p53 Activity	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	p53; innate immunity; GSK-3; RNA-Seq; kinase inhibitor	Co-treatment with actinomycin D and nutlin-3a (A + N) strongly activates p53. Previously we reported that CHIR-98014 (GSK-3 kinase inhibitor), acting in cells exposed to A + N, prevents activation of TREM2-an innate immunity and p53-regulated gene associated with Alzheimer’s disease. In order to find novel candidate p53-target genes and genes regulated by CHIR-98014, we performed RNA-Seq of control A549 cells and the cells exposed to A + N, A + N with CHIR-98014 or to CHIR-98014. We validated the data for selected genes using RT-PCR and/or Western blotting. Using CRISPR/Cas9 technology we generated p53-deficient cells. These tools enabled us to identify dozens of candidate p53-regulated genes. We confirmed that p53 participates in upregulation of BLNK, APOE and IRF1. BLNK assists in activation of immune cells, APOE codes for apolipoprotein associated with Alzheimer’s disease and IRF1 is activated by interferon gamma and regulates expression of antiviral genes. CHIR-98014 prevented or inhibited the upregulation of a fraction of genes stimulated by A + N. Downregulation of GSK-3 did not mimic the activity of CHIR-98014. Our data generate the hypothesis, that an unidentified kinase inhibited by CHIR-98014, participates in modification of p53 and enables it to activate a subset of its target genes, e.g., the ones associated with innate immunity.	Center for Translational Research and Molecular Biology of Cancer, Maria Skłodowska-Curie National Research Institute of Oncology, 44-101 Gliwice, Poland	10.3390/ijms222011072	2021	22	20	-	-	11072	-
Wassan, Jyotsna; Zheng, Huiru; Wang, Haiying	Role of Deep Learning in Predicting Aging-Related Diseases: A Scoping Review	Cells	EN	Review	aging; deep learning; classification; prediction; PRISMA	Aging refers to progressive physiological changes in a cell, an organ, or the whole body of an individual, over time. Aging-related diseases are highly prevalent and could impact an individual’s physical health. Recently, artificial intelligence (AI) methods have been used to predict aging-related diseases and issues, aiding clinical providers in decision-making based on patient’s medical records. Deep learning (DL), as one of the most recent generations of AI technologies, has embraced rapid progress in the early prediction and classification of aging-related issues. In this paper, a scoping review of publications using DL approaches to predict common aging-related diseases (such as age-related macular degeneration, cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, arthritis, Alzheimer’s and lifestyle patterns related to disease progression), was performed. Google Scholar, IEEE and PubMed are used to search DL papers on common aging-related issues published between January 2017 and August 2021. These papers were reviewed, evaluated, and the findings were summarized. Overall, 34 studies met the inclusion criteria. These studies indicate that DL could help clinicians in diagnosing disease at its early stages by mapping diagnostic predictions into observable clinical presentations; and achieving high predictive performance (e.g., more than 90% accurate predictions of diseases in aging).	Maitreyi College, University of Delhi, New Delhi 110021, India	10.3390/cells10112924	2021	10	11	-	-	2924	-
Ni, Yu-Ching; Tseng, Fan-Pin; Pai, Ming-Chyi; Hsiao, Ing-Tsung; Lin, Kun-Ju; Lin, Zhi-Kun; Lin, Chia-Yu; Chiu, Pai-Yi; Hung, Guang-Uei; Chang, Chiung-Chih; Chang, Ya-Ting; Chuang, Keh-Shih; Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative	The Feasibility of Differentiating Lewy Body Dementia and Alzheimer’s Disease by Deep Learning Using ECD SPECT Images	Diagnostics	EN	Article	ECD SPECT images; Lewy body dementia; Alzheimer’s disease; transfer learning	The correct differential diagnosis of dementia has an important impact on patient treatment and follow-up care strategies. Tc-99m-ECD SPECT imaging, which is low cost and accessible in general clinics, is used to identify the two common types of dementia, Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and Lewy body dementia (LBD). Two-stage transfer learning technology and reducing model complexity based on the ResNet-50 model were performed using the ImageNet data set and ADNI database. To improve training accuracy, the three-dimensional image was reorganized into three sets of two-dimensional images for data augmentation and ensemble learning, then the performance of various deep learning models for Tc-99m-ECD SPECT images to distinguish AD/normal cognition (NC), LBD/NC, and AD/LBD were investigated. In the AD/NC, LBD/NC, and AD/LBD tasks, the AUC values were around 0.94, 0.95, and 0.74, regardless of training models, with an accuracy of 90%, 87%, and 71%, and F1 scores of 89%, 86%, and 76% in the best cases. The use of transfer learning and a modified model resulted in better prediction results, increasing the accuracy by 32% for AD/NC. The proposed method is practical and could rapidly utilize a deep learning model to automatically extract image features based on a small number of SPECT brain perfusion images in general clinics to objectively distinguish AD and LBD.	Health Physics Division, Institute of Nuclear Energy Research, Atomic Energy Council, Taoyuan 325, Taiwan	10.3390/diagnostics11112091	2021	11	11	-	-	2091	-
Semyachkina-Glushkovskaya, Oxana; Penzel, Thomas; Blokhina, Inna; Khorovodov, Alexander; Fedosov, Ivan; Yu, Tingting; Karandin, Georgy; Evsukova, Arina; Elovenko, Dariya; Adushkina, Viktoria; Shirokov, Alexander; Dubrovskii, Alexander; Terskov, Andrey; Navolokin, Nikita; Tzoy, Maria; Ageev, Vasily; Agranovich, Ilana; Telnova, Valeria; Tsven, Anna; Kurths, Jürgen	Night Photostimulation of Clearance of Beta-Amyloid from Mouse Brain: New Strategies in Preventing Alzheimer’s Disease	Cells	EN	Article	amyloid-β; night clearance; transcranial photostimulation; lymphatic system	The deposition of amyloid-β (Aβ) in the brain is a risk factor for Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Therefore, new strategies for the stimulation of Aβ clearance from the brain can be useful in preventing AD. Transcranial photostimulation (PS) is considered a promising method for AD therapy. In our previous studies, we clearly demonstrated the PS-mediated stimulation of lymphatic clearing functions, including Aβ removal from the brain. There is increasing evidence that sleep plays an important role in Aβ clearance. Here, we tested our hypothesis that PS at night can stimulate Aβ clearance from the brain more effectively than PS during the day. Our results on healthy mice show that Aβ clearance from the brain occurs faster at night than during wakefulness. The PS course at night improves memory and reduces Aβ accumulation in the brain of AD mice more effectively than the PS course during the day. Our results suggest that night PS is a more promising candidate as an effective method in preventing AD than daytime PS. These data are an important informative platform for the development of new noninvasive and nonpharmacological technologies for AD therapy as well as for preventing Aβ accumulation in the brain of people with disorder of Aβ metabolism, sleep deficit, elderly age, and jet lag.	Institute of Physics, Humboldt University, Newtonstrasse 15, 12489 Berlin, Germany	10.3390/cells10123289	2021	10	12	-	-	3289	-
Rahmani, Amir; Ali Naqvi, Rizwan; Ali, Saqib; Hosseini Mirmahaleh, Seyedeh; Alswaitti, Mohammed; Hosseinzadeh, Mehdi; Siddique, Kamran	An Astrocyte-Flow Mapping on a Mesh-Based Communication Infrastructure to Defective Neurons Phagocytosis	Mathematics	EN	Article	flow mapping; defective device detection; mesh network; astrocyte cells; phagocytosis	In deploying the Internet of Things (IoT) and Internet of Medical Things (IoMT)-based applications and infrastructures, the researchers faced many sensors and their output’s values, which have transferred between service requesters and servers. Some case studies addressed the different methods and technologies, including machine learning algorithms, deep learning accelerators, Processing-In-Memory (PIM), and neuromorphic computing (NC) approaches to support the data processing complexity and communication between IoMT nodes. With inspiring human brain structure, some researchers tackled the challenges of rising IoT- and IoMT-based applications and neural structures’ simulation. A defective device has destructive effects on the performance and cost of the applications, and their detection is challenging for a communication infrastructure with many devices. We inspired astrocyte cells to map the flow (AFM) of the Internet of Medical Things onto mesh network processing elements (PEs), and detect the defective devices based on a phagocytosis model. This study focuses on an astrocyte’s cholesterol distribution into neurons and presents an algorithm that utilizes its pattern to distribute IoMT’s dataflow and detect the defective devices. We researched Alzheimer’s symptoms to understand astrocyte and phagocytosis functions against the disease and employ the vaccination COVID-19 dataset to define a set of task graphs. The study improves total runtime and energy by approximately 60.85% and 52.38% after implementing AFM, compared with before astrocyte-flow mapping, which helps IoMT’s infrastructure developers to provide healthcare services to the requesters with minimal cost and high accuracy.	Future Technology Research Center, National Yunlin University of Science and Technology, Douliou 64002, Taiwan	10.3390/math9233012	2021	9	23	-	-	3012	-
Tufail, Ahsan; Ma, Yong-Kui; Kaabar, Mohammed; Rehman, Ateeq; Khan, Rahim; Cheikhrouhou, Omar	Classification of Initial Stages of Alzheimer’s Disease through Pet Neuroimaging Modality and Deep Learning: Quantifying the Impact of Image Filtering Approaches	Mathematics	EN	Article	neuroimaging; classification; image filtering; statistical comparison	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a leading health concern affecting the elderly population worldwide. It is defined by amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuronal loss. Neuroimaging modalities such as positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging are routinely used in clinical settings to monitor the alterations in the brain during the course of progression of AD. Deep learning techniques such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have found numerous applications in healthcare and other technologies. Together with neuroimaging modalities, they can be deployed in clinical settings to learn effective representations of data for different tasks such as classification, segmentation, detection, etc. Image filtering methods are instrumental in making images viable for image processing operations and have found numerous applications in image-processing-related tasks. In this work, we deployed 3D-CNNs to learn effective representations of PET modality data to quantify the impact of different image filtering approaches. We used box filtering, median filtering, Gaussian filtering, and modified Gaussian filtering approaches to preprocess the images and use them for classification using 3D-CNN architecture. Our findings suggest that these approaches are nearly equivalent and have no distinct advantage over one another. For the multiclass classification task between normal control (NC), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and AD classes, the 3D-CNN architecture trained using Gaussian-filtered data performed the best. For binary classification between NC and MCI classes, the 3D-CNN architecture trained using median-filtered data performed the best, while, for binary classification between AD and MCI classes, the 3D-CNN architecture trained using modified Gaussian-filtered data performed the best. Finally, for binary classification between AD and NC classes, the 3D-CNN architecture trained using box-filtered data performed the best.	School of Electronics and Information Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150001, China	10.3390/math9233101	2021	9	23	-	-	3101	-
Ó Breasail, Mícheál; Biswas, Bijetri; Smith, Matthew; Mazhar, Md; Tenison, Emma; Cullen, Anisha; Lithander, Fiona; Roudaut, Anne; Henderson, Emily	Wearable GPS and Accelerometer Technologies for Monitoring Mobility and Physical Activity in Neurodegenerative Disorders: A Systematic Review	Sensors	EN	Systematic Review	Parkinson’s disease; Alzheimer’s disease; remote monitoring; sensors; GPS; accelerometry; movement/mobility; physical activity; wearable technology	Neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs) constitute an increasing global burden and can significantly impair an individual’s mobility, physical activity (PA), and independence. Remote monitoring has been difficult without relying on diaries/questionnaires which are more challenging for people with dementia to complete. Wearable global positioning system (GPS) sensors and accelerometers present a cost-effective and noninvasive way to passively monitor mobility and PA. In addition, changes in sensor-derived outcomes (such as walking behaviour, sedentary, and active activity) may serve as potential biomarkers of disease onset, progression, and response to treatment. We performed a systematic search across four databases to identify papers published within the past 5 years, in which wearable GPS or accelerometers were used to monitor mobility or PA in patients with common NDDs (Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, motor neuron diseases/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, vascular parkinsonism, and vascular dementia). Disease and technology-specific vocabulary were searched singly, and then in combination, identifying 4985 papers. Following deduplication, we screened 3115 papers and retained 28 studies following a full text review. One study used wearable GPS and accelerometers, while 27 studies used solely accelerometers in NDDs. GPS-derived measures had been validated against current gold standard measures in one Parkinson’s cohort, suggesting that the technology may be applicable to other NDDs. In contrast, accelerometers are widely utilised in NDDs and have been operationalised in well-designed clinical trials.	Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 1-5 Whiteladies Road, Bristol BS8 1NU, UK	10.3390/s21248261	2021	21	24	-	-	8261	-
Yamasaki, Takao; Kumagai, Shuzo	Nonwearable Sensor-Based In-Home Assessment of Subtle Daily Behavioral Changes as a Candidate Biomarker for Mild Cognitive Impairment	Journal of Personalized Medicine	EN	Review	mild cognitive impairment; Alzheimer’s disease; nonwearable sensor-based in-home assessment; daily behavior; digital technologies	Patients show subtle changes in daily behavioral patterns, revealed by traditional assessments (e.g., performance- or questionnaire-based assessments) even in the early stage of Alzheimer’s disease (AD; i.e., the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) stage). An increase in studies on the assessment of daily behavioral changes in patients with MCI and AD using digital technologies (e.g., wearable and nonwearable sensor-based assessment) has been noted in recent years. In addition, more objective, quantitative, and realistic evidence of altered daily behavioral patterns in patients with MCI and AD has been provided by digital technologies rather than traditional assessments. Therefore, this study hypothesized that the assessment of daily behavioral changes with digital technologies can replace or assist traditional assessment methods for early MCI and AD detection. In this review, we focused on research using nonwearable sensor-based in-home assessment. Previous studies on the assessment of behavioral changes in MCI and AD using traditional performance- or questionnaire-based assessments are first described. Next, an overview of previous studies on the assessment of behavioral changes in MCI and AD using nonwearable sensor-based in-home assessment is provided. Finally, the usefulness and problems of nonwearable sensor-based in-home assessment for early MCI and AD detection are discussed. In conclusion, this review stresses that subtle changes in daily behavioral patterns detected by nonwearable sensor-based in-home assessment can be early MCI and AD biomarkers.	Kumagai Institute of Health Policy, Fukuoka 816-0812, Japan	10.3390/jpm12010011	2021	12	1	-	-	11	-
Martikainen, Maria-Viola; Aakko-Saksa, Päivi; van den Broek, Lenie; Cassee, Flemming; Carare, Roxana; Chew, Sweelin; Dinnyes, Andras; Giugno, Rosalba; Kanninen, Katja; Malm, Tarja; Muala, Ala; Nedergaard, Maiken; Oudin, Anna; Oyola, Pedro; Pfeiffer, Tobias; Rönkkö, Topi; Saarikoski, Sanna; Sandström, Thomas; Schins, Roel; Topinka, Jan; Yang, Mo; Zeng, Xiaowen; Westerink, Remco; Jalava, Pasi	TUBE Project: Transport-Derived Ultrafines and the Brain Effects	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Project Report	air pollution; brain; particulate matter; UFP; toxicology; CNS; traffic	The adverse effects of air pollutants on the respiratory and cardiovascular systems are unquestionable. However, in recent years, indications of effects beyond these organ systems have become more evident. Traffic-related air pollution has been linked with neurological diseases, exacerbated cognitive dysfunction, and Alzheimer’s disease. However, the exact air pollutant compositions and exposure scenarios leading to these adverse health effects are not known. Although several components of air pollution may be at play, recent experimental studies point to a key role of ultrafine particles (UFPs). While the importance of UFPs has been recognized, almost nothing is known about the smallest fraction of UFPs, and only >23 nm emissions are regulated in the EU. Moreover, the role of the semivolatile fraction of the emissions has been neglected. The Transport-Derived Ultrafines and the Brain Effects (TUBE) project will increase knowledge on harmful ultrafine air pollutants, as well as semivolatile compounds related to adverse health effects. By including all the major current combustion and emission control technologies, the TUBE project aims to provide new information on the adverse health effects of current traffic, as well as information for decision makers to develop more effective emission legislation. Most importantly, the TUBE project will include adverse health effects beyond the respiratory system; TUBE will assess how air pollution affects the brain and how air pollution particles might be removed from the brain. The purpose of this report is to describe the TUBE project, its background, and its goals.	Department of Environmental and Biological Sciences, University of Eastern Finland, 70210 Kuopio, Finland	10.3390/ijerph19010311	2021	19	1	-	-	311	-
Yefroyev, David; Jin, Sha	Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells for Treatment of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s Diseases	Biomedicines	EN	Review	induced pluripotent stem cells; Alzheimer’s disease; Parkinson’s disease; neural cells; neural organoids; 3D bioprinting	Neurodegenerative diseases are a group of debilitating pathologies in which neuronal tissue dies due to the buildup of neurotoxic plaques, resulting in detrimental effects on cognitive ability, motor control, and everyday function. Stem cell technology offers promise in addressing this problem on multiple fronts, but the conventional sourcing of pluripotent stem cells involves harvesting from aborted embryonic tissue, which comes with strong ethical and practical concerns. The keystone discovery of induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology provides an alternative and endless source, circumventing the unfavorable issues with embryonic stem cells, and yielding fundamental advantages. This review highlights iPSC technology, the pathophysiology of two major neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, and then illustrates current state-of-the-art approaches towards the treatment of the diseases using iPSCs. The technologies discussed in the review emphasize in vitro therapeutic neural cell and organoid development for disease treatment, pathological modeling of neurodegenerative diseases, and 3D bioprinting as it applies to both.	Department of Biomedical Engineering, Thomas J. Watson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, State University of New York at Binghamton, Binghamton, NY 13902, USA	10.3390/biomedicines10020208	2022	10	2	-	-	208	-
Swan, Melanie; dos Santos, Renato; Witte, Franke	Quantum Neurobiology	Quantum Reports	EN	Review	quantum biology; quantum neurobiology; quantum neuroscience; biological physics; neuroscience physics; quantum information science; neuropathology; theoretical neuroscience	Quantum neurobiology is concerned with potential quantum effects operating in the brain and the application of quantum information science to neuroscience problems, the latter of which is the main focus of the current paper. The human brain is fundamentally a multiscalar problem, with complex behavior spanning nine orders of magnitude-scale tiers from the atomic and cellular level to brain networks and the central nervous system. In this review, we discuss a new generation of bio-inspired quantum technologies in the emerging field of quantum neurobiology and present a novel physics-inspired theory of neural signaling (AdS/Brain (anti-de Sitter space)). Three tiers of quantum information science-directed neurobiology applications can be identified. First are those that interpret empirical data from neural imaging modalities (EEG, MRI, CT, PET scans), protein folding, and genomics with wavefunctions and quantum machine learning. Second are those that develop neural dynamics as a broad approach to quantum neurobiology, consisting of superpositioned data modeling evaluated with quantum probability, neural field theories, filamentary signaling, and quantum nanoscience. Third is neuroscience physics interpretations of foundational physics findings in the context of neurobiology. The benefit of this work is the possibility of an improved understanding of the resolution of neuropathologies such as Alzheimer’s disease.	Computer Science, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK	10.3390/quantum4010008	2022	4	1	-	-	8	-
Mollinari, Cristiana; De Dominicis, Chiara; Lupacchini, Leonardo; Sansone, Luigi; Caprini, Davide; Casciola, Carlo; Wang, Ying; Zhao, Jian; Fini, Massimo; Russo, Matteo; Garaci, Enrico; Merlo, Daniela	Detection of Pathological Markers of Neurodegenerative Diseases following Microfluidic Direct Conversion of Patient Fibroblasts into Neurons	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	transdifferentiation; induced neurons; neurodegeneration; biomarkers; microfluidics	Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease are clinically diagnosed using neuropsychological and cognitive tests, expensive neuroimaging-based approaches (MRI and PET) and invasive and time-consuming lumbar puncture for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample collection to detect biomarkers. Thus, a rapid, simple and cost-effective approach to more easily access fluids and tissues is in great need. Here, we exploit the chemical direct reprogramming of patient skin fibroblasts into neurons (chemically induced neurons, ciNs) as a novel strategy for the rapid detection of different pathological markers of neurodegenerative diseases. We found that FAD fibroblasts have a reduced efficiency of reprogramming, and converted ciNs show a less complex neuronal network. In addition, ciNs from patients show misfolded protein accumulation and mitochondria ultrastructural abnormalities, biomarkers commonly associated with neurodegeneration. Moreover, for the first time, we show that microfluidic technology, in combination with chemical reprogramming, enables on-chip examination of disease pathological processes and may have important applications in diagnosis. In conclusion, ciNs on microfluidic devices represent a small-scale, non-invasive and cost-effective high-throughput tool for protein misfolding disease diagnosis and may be useful for new biomarker discovery, disease mechanism studies and design of personalised therapies.	Department of Neuroscience, Istituto Superiore di Sanita’, 00161 Rome, Italy	10.3390/ijms23042147	2022	23	4	-	-	2147	-
Ancheta, Leonardo; Shramm, Patrick; Bouajram, Raschel; Higgins, Denise; Lappi, Douglas	Saporin as a Commercial Reagent: Its Uses and Unexpected Impacts in the Biological Sciences—Tools from the Plant Kingdom	Toxins	EN	Review	Saporin; immunotoxins; lesion; Alzheimer’s; pain; RIP; internalization; animal model; cancer; Alzheimer’s disease	Saporin is a ribosome-inactivating protein that can cause inhibition of protein synthesis and causes cell death when delivered inside a cell. Development of commercial Saporin results in a technology termed ‘molecular surgery’, with Saporin as the scalpel. Its low toxicity (it has no efficient method of cell entry) and sturdy structure make Saporin a safe and simple molecule for many purposes. The most popular applications use experimental molecules that deliver Saporin via an add-on targeting molecule. These add-ons come in several forms: peptides, protein ligands, antibodies, even DNA fragments that mimic cell-binding ligands. Cells that do not express the targeted cell surface marker will not be affected. This review will highlight some newer efforts and discuss significant and unexpected impacts on science that molecular surgery has yielded over the last almost four decades. There are remarkable changes in fields such as the Neurosciences with models for Alzheimer’s Disease and epilepsy, and game-changing effects in the study of pain and itch. Many other uses are also discussed to record the wide-reaching impact of Saporin in research and drug development.	Advanced Targeting Systems, Inc., Carlsbad, CA 92011, USA	10.3390/toxins14030184	2022	14	3	-	-	184	-
Khatri, Uttam; Kwon, Goo-Rak	Classification of Alzheimer’s Disease and Mild-Cognitive Impairment Base on High-Order Dynamic Functional Connectivity at Different Frequency Band	Mathematics	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; higher-order dynamic network; sequential features selection; SVM; classification	Functional brain connectivity networks obtained from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) have been extensively utilized for the diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). However, the traditional correlation analysis technique only explores the pairwise relation, which may not be suitable for revealing sufficient and proper functional connectivity links among brain regions. Additionally, previous literature typically focuses on only lower-order dynamics, without considering higher-order dynamic networks properties, and they particularly focus on single frequency range time series of rs-fMRI. To solve these problems, in this article, a new diagnosis scheme is proposed by constructing a high-order dynamic functional network at different frequency level time series (full-band (0.01–0.08 Hz); slow-4 (0.027–0.08 Hz); and slow-5 (0.01–0.027 Hz)) data obtained from rs-fMRI to build the functional brain network for all brain regions. Especially, to tune the precise analysis of the regularized parameters in the Support Vector Machine (SVM), a nested leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) technique is adopted. Finally, the SVM classifier is trained to classify AD from HC based on these higher-order dynamic functional brain networks at different frequency ranges. The experiment results illustrate that for all bands with a LOOCV classification accuracy of 94.10% with a 90.95% of sensitivity, and a 96.75% of specificity outperforms the individual networks. Utilization of the given technique for the identification of AD from HC compete for the most state-of-the-art technology in terms of the diagnosis accuracy. Additionally, results obtained for the all-band shows performance further suggest that our proposed scheme has a high-rate accuracy. These results have validated the effectiveness of the proposed methods for clinical value to the identification of AD.	Department of Information and Communication Engineering, Chosun University, 309 Pilmun-Daero, Dong-Gu, Gwangju 61452, Korea	10.3390/math10050805	2022	10	5	-	-	805	-
Cammisuli, Davide; Cipriani, Gabriele; Castelnuovo, Gianluca	Technological Solutions for Diagnosis, Management and Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease-Related Symptoms: A Structured Review of the Recent Scientific Literature	International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; mental health technology; digital devices; applications; sensors; virtual reality; empowerment	In people with Alzheimer’s disease (PwAD), there is a need for specific tools for the timely diagnosis, management, and treatment of symptoms. New technological solutions, including digital devices, application programs (apps), sensors and virtual reality, represent promising possibilities for objective and reliable assessment, monitoring and intervention strategies in this field. Our structured review presents an up-to-date summary of the technological solutions for the (i) diagnosis, (ii) management and (iii) treatment of AD-related symptoms. To this end, we searched electronic databases (i.e., PubMed, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library) for studies published over the last 10 years. Two authors of the review extracted data of interest. A total of eight manuscripts were included. In the last decade, a series of technological solutions across AD stages have been proposed. These include: (i) innovative strategies for the early detection of deficits in finger dexterity, visuo-spatial abilities (including spatial navigation), divided attention and instrumental autonomy; (ii) tools to activate the patient’s responsiveness in terms of alertness and mood improvement; and (iii) useful interventions for retrieving memories, increasing body movements and improving spatial cognition. Methodological limitations, mainly pertaining to the paucity of randomized controlled trials and comprehensive assessments, were observed. Advances in technology currently provide the potential for designing innovative methods for evaluating, controlling and handling AD-related symptoms. The co-creation of technological solutions with all stakeholders represents the best way to design effective strategies for PwAD.	Department of Psychology, Catholic University, 20123 Milan, Italy	10.3390/ijerph19053122	2022	19	5	-	-	3122	-
Yamamoto, Yuichi; Kanayama, Norihiro; Nakayama, Yusuke; Matsushima, Nobuko	Current Status, Issues and Future Prospects of Personalized Medicine for Each Disease	Journal of Personalized Medicine	EN	Review	precision medicine; biomarker; rheumatoid arthritis; psoriasis; Alzheimer’s disease	In recent years, with the advancement of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology, gene panel tests have been approved in the field of cancer diseases, and approaches to prescribe optimal molecular target drugs to patients are being developed. In the field of rare diseases, whole-genome and whole-exome analysis has been used to identify the causative genes of undiagnosed diseases and to diagnose patients’ diseases, and further progress in personalized medicine is expected. In order to promote personalized medicine in the future, we investigated the current status and progress of personalized medicine in disease areas other than cancer and rare diseases, where personalized medicine is most advanced. We selected rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis as the inflammatory disease, in addition to Alzheimer’s disease. These diseases have high unmet needs for personalized medicine from the viewpoints of disease mechanisms, diagnostic biomarkers, therapeutic drugs with diagnostic markers and treatment satisfaction. In rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis, there are many therapeutic options; however, diagnostic methods have not been developed to select the best treatment for each patient. In addition, there are few effective therapeutic agents in Alzheimer’s disease, although clinical trials of many candidate drugs have been conducted. In rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis, further elucidation of the disease mechanism is desired to enable the selection of appropriate therapeutic agents according to the patient profile. In the case of Alzheimer’s disease, progress in preventive medicine is desired through the establishment of an early diagnosis method as well as the research and development of innovative therapeutic agents. To this end, we hope for further research and development of diagnostic markers and new drugs through progress in comprehensive data analysis such as comprehensive genomic and transcriptomic information. Furthermore, new types of markers such as miRNAs and the gut microbiome are desired to be utilized in clinical diagnostics.	Clinical Evaluation Sub-Committee, Medicinal Evaluation Committee, Japan Pharmaceuticals Manufacturers Association, 2-3-11, Nihonbashi Honcho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-0023, Japan	10.3390/jpm12030444	2022	12	3	-	-	444	-
Zingale, Elide; Bonaccorso, Angela; Carbone, Claudia; Musumeci, Teresa; Pignatello, Rosario	Drug Nanocrystals: Focus on Brain Delivery from Therapeutic to Diagnostic Applications	Pharmaceutics	EN	Review	nanomedicine; amorphism; central nervous system; solubility; nanotechnology	The development of new drugs is often hindered by low solubility in water, a problem common to nearly 90% of natural and/or synthetic molecules in the discovery pipeline. Nanocrystalline drug technology involves the reduction in the bulk particle size down to the nanosize range, thus modifying its physico-chemical properties with beneficial effects on drug bioavailability. Nanocrystals (NCs) are carrier-free drug particles surrounded by a stabilizer and suspended in an aqueous medium. Due to high drug loading, NCs maintain a potent therapeutic concentration to produce desirable pharmacological action, particularly useful in the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) diseases. In addition to the therapeutic purpose, NC technology can be applied for diagnostic scope. This review aims to provide an overview of NC application by different administration routes, especially focusing on brain targeting, and with a particular attention to therapeutic and diagnostic fields. NC therapeutic applications are analyzed for the most common CNS pathologies (i.e., Parkinson’s disease, psychosis, Alzheimer’s disease, etc.). Recently, a growing interest has emerged from the use of colloidal fluorescent NCs for brain diagnostics. Therefore, the use of NCs in the imaging of brain vessels and tumor cells is also discussed. Finally, the clinical effectiveness of NCs is leading to an increasing number of FDA-approved products, among which the NCs approved for neurological disorders have increased.	Laboratory of Drug Delivery Technology, Department of Drug and Health Sciences, University of Catania, Viale A. Doria 6, 95125 Catania, Italy	10.3390/pharmaceutics14040691	2022	14	4	-	-	691	-
Tan, Li; Tang, Kwan; Lim, Lynette; Ong, Jia; Park, Hyokeun; Jung, Sangyong	α-Synuclein at the Presynaptic Axon Terminal as a Double-Edged Sword	Biomolecules	EN	Review	α-synuclein; Parkinson’s disease; Lewy bodies (LB); dementia with Lewy bodies; synucleinopathy; presynaptic axon terminal; α-synuclein oligomerization; synaptic vesicle endocytosis; targeted therapy	α-synuclein (α-syn) is a presynaptic, lipid-binding protein strongly associated with the neuropathology observed in Parkinson’s disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and Alzheimer’s Disease (AD). In normal physiology, α-syn plays a pivotal role in facilitating endocytosis and exocytosis. Interestingly, mutations and modifications of precise α-syn domains interfere with α-syn oligomerization and nucleation that negatively affect presynaptic vesicular dynamics, protein expressions, and mitochondrial profiles. Furthermore, the integration of the α-syn oligomers into the presynaptic membrane results in pore formations, ion influx, and excitotoxicity. Targeted therapies against specific domains of α-syn, including the use of small organic molecules, monoclonal antibodies, and synthetic peptides, are being screened and developed. However, the prospect of an effective α-syn targeted therapy is still plagued by low permeability across the blood–brain barrier (BBB), and poor entry into the presynaptic axon terminals. The present review proposes a modification of current strategies, which includes the use of novel encapsulation technology, such as lipid nanoparticles, to bypass the BBB and deliver such agents into the brain.	Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology (IMCB), Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore 138667, Singapore	10.3390/biom12040507	2022	12	4	-	-	507	-
Mankhong, Sakulrat; Kim, Sujin; Lee, Seongju; Kwak, Hyo-Bum; Park, Dong-Ho; Joa, Kyung-Lim; Kang, Ju-Hee	Development of Alzheimer’s Disease Biomarkers: From CSF- to Blood-Based Biomarkers	Biomedicines	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s biomarker; cerebrospinal fluid; blood-based biomarker; clinical trial; amyloid-beta; tau	In the 115 years since the discovery of Alzheimer’s disease (AD), our knowledge, diagnosis, and therapeutics have significantly improved. Biomarkers are the primary tools for clinical research, diagnostics, and therapeutic monitoring in clinical trials. They provide much insightful information, and while they are not clinically used routinely, they help us to understand the mechanisms of this disease. This review charts the journey of AD biomarker discovery and development from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) amyloid-beta 1-42 (Aβ42), total tau (T-tau), and phosphorylated tau (p-tau) biomarkers and imaging technologies to the next generation of biomarkers. We also discuss advanced high-sensitivity assay platforms for CSF Aβ42, T-tau, p-tau, and blood analysis. The recently proposed Aβ deposition/tau biomarker/neurodegeneration or neuronal injury (ATN) scheme might facilitate the definition of the biological status underpinning AD and offer a common language among researchers across biochemical biomarkers and imaging. Moreover, we highlight blood-based biomarkers for AD that offer a scalable alternative to CSF biomarkers through cost-saving and reduced invasiveness, and may provide an understanding of disease initiation and development. We discuss different groups of blood-based biomarker candidates, their advantages and limitations, and paths forward, from identification and analysis to clinical validation. The development of valid blood-based biomarkers may facilitate the implementation of future AD therapeutics and diagnostics.	Department of Pharmacology, Research Center for Controlling Intercellular Communication, College of Medicine, Inha University, Incheon 22212, Korea	10.3390/biomedicines10040850	2022	10	4	-	-	850	-
Witika, Bwalya; Poka, Madan; Demana, Patrick; Matafwali, Scott; Melamane, Siyabonga; Malungelo Khamanga, Sandile; Makoni, Pedzisai	Lipid-Based Nanocarriers for Neurological Disorders: A Review of the State-of-the-Art and Therapeutic Success to Date	Pharmaceutics	EN	Review	central nervous system; blood-brain barrier; brain-targeted drug delivery; lipid-based nanocarriers; neurodegenerative diseases	Neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and dementia are chronic and advanced diseases that are associated with loss of neurons and other related pathologies. Furthermore, these disorders involve structural and functional defections of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Consequently, advances in medicines and therapeutics have led to a better appreciation of various pathways associated with the development of neurodegenerative disorders, thus focusing on drug discovery and research for targeted drug therapy to the central nervous system (CNS). Although the BBB functions as a shield to prevent toxins in the blood from reaching the brain, drug delivery to the CNS is hindered by its presence. Owing to this, various formulation approaches, including the use of lipid-based nanocarriers, have been proposed to address shortcomings related to BBB permeation in CNS-targeted therapy, thus showing the potential of these carriers for translation into clinical use. Nevertheless, to date, none of these nanocarriers has been granted market authorization following the successful completion of all stages of clinical trials. While the aforementioned benefits of using lipid-based carriers underscores the need to fast-track their translational development into clinical practice, technological advances need to be initiated to achieve appropriate capacity for scale-up and the production of affordable dosage forms.	Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University, Pretoria 0208, South Africa	10.3390/pharmaceutics14040836	2022	14	4	-	-	836	-
Chen, Chase; Sidransky, Ellen; Chen, Yu	Lyso-IP: Uncovering Pathogenic Mechanisms of Lysosomal Dysfunction	Biomolecules	EN	Review	lysosomes; lysosome isolation; Niemann-Pick type C	Lysosomes are ubiquitous membrane-bound organelles found in all eukaryotic cells. Outside of their well-known degradative function, lysosomes are integral in maintaining cellular homeostasis. Growing evidence has shown that lysosomal dysfunction plays an important role not only in the rare group of lysosomal storage diseases but also in a host of others, including common neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease. New technological advances have significantly increased our ability to rapidly isolate lysosomes from cells in recent years. The development of the Lyso-IP approach and similar methods now allow for lysosomal purification within ten minutes. Multiple studies using the Lyso-IP approach have revealed novel insights into the pathogenic mechanisms of lysosomal disorders, including Niemann-Pick type C disease, showing the immense potential for this technique. Future applications of rapid lysosomal isolation techniques are likely to greatly enhance our understanding of lysosomal dysfunction in rare and common neurodegeneration causes.	Section on Molecular Neurogenetics, Medical Genetics Branch, National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bld 35A, Room 1E623 35 Convent Drive, MSC 3708, Rockville, MD 20892, USA	10.3390/biom12050616	2022	12	5	-	-	616	-
Hasan, Md; Trushina, Eugenia	Advances in Recapitulating Alzheimer’s Disease Phenotypes Using Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Based In Vitro Models	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; biofabrication; disease modeling; human induced pluripotent stem cell (HiPSC); microfluidics; organoid; spheroid; stem cells; 3D culture	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is an incurable neurodegenerative disorder and the leading cause of death among older individuals. Available treatment strategies only temporarily mitigate symptoms without modifying disease progression. Recent studies revealed the multifaceted neurobiology of AD and shifted the target of drug development. Established animal models of AD are mostly tailored to yield a subset of disease phenotypes, which do not recapitulate the complexity of sporadic late-onset AD, the most common form of the disease. The use of human induced pluripotent stem cells (HiPSCs) offers unique opportunities to fill these gaps. Emerging technology allows the development of disease models that recapitulate a brain-like microenvironment using patient-derived cells. These models retain the individual’s unraveled genetic background, yielding clinically relevant disease phenotypes and enabling cost-effective, high-throughput studies for drug discovery. Here, we review the development of various HiPSC-based models to study AD mechanisms and their application in drug discovery.	Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA	10.3390/brainsci12050552	2022	12	5	-	-	552	-
Cullen, Anisha; Mazhar, Md; Smith, Matthew; Lithander, Fiona; Ó Breasail, Mícheál; Henderson, Emily	Wearable and Portable GPS Solutions for Monitoring Mobility in Dementia: A Systematic Review	Sensors	EN	Systematic Review	Alzheimer’s disease; remote monitoring; sensors; GPS; movement/mobility; wearable technology	Dementia is the most common neurodegenerative disorder globally. Disease progression is marked by declining cognitive function accompanied by changes in mobility. Increased sedentary behaviour and, conversely, wandering and becoming lost are common. Global positioning system (GPS) solutions are increasingly used by caregivers to locate missing people with dementia (PwD) but also offer a non-invasive means of monitoring mobility patterns in PwD. We performed a systematic search across five databases to identify papers published since 2000, where wearable or portable GPS was used to monitor mobility in patients with common dementias or mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Disease and GPS-specific vocabulary were searched singly, and then in combination, identifying 3004 papers. Following deduplication, we screened 1972 papers and retained 17 studies after a full-text review. Only 1/17 studies used a wrist-worn GPS solution, while all others were variously located on the patient. We characterised the studies using a conceptual framework, finding marked heterogeneity in the number and complexity of reported GPS-derived mobility outcomes. Duration was the most frequently reported category of mobility reported (15/17), followed by out of home (14/17), and stop and trajectory (both 10/17). Future research would benefit from greater standardisation and harmonisation of reporting which would enable GPS-derived measures of mobility to be incorporated more robustly into clinical trials.	Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 1–5 Whiteladies Road, Bristol BS8 1NU, UK	10.3390/s22093336	2022	22	9	-	-	3336	-
Bayarsaikhan, Govigerel; Bayarsaikhan, Delger; Lee, Jaewon; Lee, Bonghee	Targeting Scavenger Receptors in Inflammatory Disorders and Oxidative Stress	Antioxidants	EN	Review	AGEs; AOPPs; ALEs; scavenger receptors; oxidative stress; inflammation; gene knockout	Oxidative stress and inflammation cannot be considered as diseases themselves; however, they are major risk factors for the development and progression of the pathogenesis underlying many illnesses, such as cancer, neurological disorders (including Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease), autoimmune and metabolic disorders, etc. According to the results obtained from extensive studies, oxidative stress–induced biomolecules, such as advanced oxidation protein products, advanced glycation end products, and advanced lipoxidation end products, are critical for an accelerated level of inflammation and oxidative stress–induced cellular damage, as reflected in their strong affinity to a wide range of scavenger receptors. Based on the limitations of antioxidative and anti-inflammatory molecules in practical applications, targeting such interactions between harmful molecules and their cellular receptors/signaling with advances in gene engineering technology, such as CRISPR or TALEN, may prove to be a safe and effective alternative. In this review, we summarize the findings of recent studies focused on the deletion of scavenger receptors under oxidative stress as a development in the therapeutic approaches against the diseases linked to inflammation and the contribution of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), advanced lipid peroxidation products (ALEs), and advanced oxidation protein products (AOPPs).	Lee Gil Ya Cancer and Diabetes Institute, Gachon University, Incheon 406-840, Korea	10.3390/antiox11050936	2022	11	5	-	-	936	-
Kobus, Magdalena; Żądzińska, Elżbieta; Sitek, Aneta; Pełka, Jacek; Rożniecki, Jacek; Antoszewski, Bogusław	Risk of Migraine in Europeans with Low Melanin Levels—A Population Based Case-Control Study	Brain Sciences	EN	Article	migraine; melanin; headache; skin pigmentation; cutaneous colorimetry	Populations with a relatively low concentration of melanin, e.g., inhabitants of Europe, North America, and Australia, are the most vulnerable to the harmful effects of UV radiation. Individuals with fair phototype are at greatest risk of developing skin cancer. Several neurological studies present that light skin may modify the risk of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases. However, the relationship between migraine and skin pigmentation has not been investigated yet. The objective of this study is to provide evidence of the relationship between skin pigmentation and migraine prevalence in adults. We examined a group of 148 adults (33 men, 115 women) with migraine and a control group of 107 adults (43 men, 64 women). Parameters of skin pigmentation (melanin index, erythema index, CIElab, and RGB scales) were measured using a DSM II Cortex Technology dermospectrophotometer. Risk of migraine in lightly pigmented adults was elevated. Individuals with a low melanin index had over 3-fold increased risk of migraine (women: OR 3.53, men: OR 3.73). Fair phototype, which results from lightly pigmented skin, was associated with migraine prevalence. Migraineurs should take extra care to protect their skin from the negative effects of solar radiation.	Department of Anthropology, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection, University of Lodz, 90-237 Lodz, Poland	10.3390/brainsci12050620	2022	12	5	-	-	620	-
Sanchez-Varo, Raquel; Mejias-Ortega, Marina; Fernandez-Valenzuela, Juan; Nuñez-Diaz, Cristina; Caceres-Palomo, Laura; Vegas-Gomez, Laura; Sanchez-Mejias, Elisabeth; Trujillo-Estrada, Laura; Garcia-Leon, Juan; Moreno-Gonzalez, Ines; Vizuete, Marisa; Vitorica, Javier; Baglietto-Vargas, David; Gutierrez, Antonia	Transgenic Mouse Models of Alzheimer’s Disease: An Integrative Analysis	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; transgenic mice; amyloid; tau; microglia; astrocytes; oligodendrocytes; neurodegeneration	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) constitutes the most prominent form of dementia among elderly individuals worldwide. Disease modeling using murine transgenic mice was first initiated thanks to the discovery of heritable mutations in amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins (PS) genes. However, due to the repeated failure of translational applications from animal models to human patients, along with the recent advances in genetic susceptibility and our current understanding on disease biology, these models have evolved over time in an attempt to better reproduce the complexity of this devastating disease and improve their applicability. In this review, we provide a comprehensive overview about the major pathological elements of human AD (plaques, tauopathy, synaptic damage, neuronal death, neuroinflammation and glial dysfunction), discussing the knowledge that available mouse models have provided about the mechanisms underlying human disease. Moreover, we highlight the pros and cons of current models, and the revolution offered by the concomitant use of transgenic mice and omics technologies that may lead to a more rapid improvement of the present modeling battery.	Departamento Biologia Celular, Genetica y Fisiologia, Instituto de Investigacion Biomedica de Malaga-IBIMA, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Malaga, 29071 Malaga, Spain	10.3390/ijms23105404	2022	23	10	-	-	5404	-
Quarato, Veronica; D’Antona, Salvatore; Battista, Petronilla; Zupo, Roberta; Sardone, Rodolfo; Castiglioni, Isabella; Porro, Danilo; Frasca, Marco; Cava, Claudia	Transcriptional Profiling of Hippocampus Identifies Network Alterations in Alzheimer’s Disease	Applied Sciences	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; bioinformatics; co-expression	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by rapid brain cell degeneration affecting different areas of the brain. Hippocampus is one of the earliest involved brain regions in the disease. Modern technologies based on high-throughput data have identified transcriptional profiling of several neurological diseases, including AD, for a better comprehension of genetic mechanisms of the disease. In this study, we investigated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from six Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets of hippocampus of AD patients. The identified DEGs were submitted to Weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) and ClueGo to explore genes with a higher degree centrality and to comprehend their biological role. Subsequently, MCODE was used to identify subnetworks of interconnected DEGs. Our study found 40 down-regulated genes and 36 up-regulated genes as consensus DEGs. Analysis of the co-expression network revealed ACOT7, ATP8A2, CDC42, GAD1, GOT1, INA, NCALD, and WWTR1 to be genes with a higher degree centrality. ClueGO revealed the pathways that were mainly enriched, such as clathrin coat assembly, synaptic vesicle endocytosis, and DNA damage response signal transduction by p53 class mediator. In addition, we found a subnetwork of 12 interconnected genes (AMPH, CA10, CALY, NEFL, SNAP25, SNAP91, SNCB, STMN2, SV2B, SYN2, SYT1, and SYT13). Only CA10 and CALY are targets of known drugs while the others could be potential novel drug targets.	Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council (IBFM-CNR), Via F. Cervi 93, Segrate, 20054 Milan, Italy	10.3390/app12105035	2022	12	10	-	-	5035	-
Grosman-Dziewiszek, Patrycja; Wiatrak, Benita; Dziewiszek, Wojciech; Jawień, Paulina; Mydlikowski, Remigiusz; Bolejko, Romuald; Szandruk-Bender, Marta; Karuga-Kuźniewska, Ewa; Szeląg, Adam	Influence of 40 Hz and 100 Hz Vibration on SH-SY5Y Cells Growth and Differentiation—A Preliminary Study	Molecules	EN	Article	vibration; low magnitude high-frequency vibration (LMHFV); cell differentiation; cell lines; neurons; SH-SY5Y cells	(1) Background: A novel bioreactor platform of neuronal cell cultures using low-magnitude, low-frequency (LMLF) vibrational stimulation was designed to discover vibration influence and mimic the dynamic environment of the in vivo state. To better understand the impact of 40 Hz and 100 Hz vibration on cell differentiation, we join biotechnology and advanced medical technology to design the nano-vibration system. The influence of vibration on the development of nervous tissue on the selected cell line SH-SY5Y (experimental research model in Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s) was investigated. (2) Methods: The vibration stimulation of cell differentiation and elongation of their neuritis were monitored. We measured how vibrations affect the morphology and differentiation of nerve cells in vitro. (3) Results: The highest average length of neurites was observed in response to the 40 Hz vibration on the collagen surface in the differentiating medium, but cells response did not increase with vibration frequency. Also, vibrations at a frequency of 40 Hz or 100 Hz did not affect the average density of neurites. 100 Hz vibration increased the neurites density significantly with time for cultures on collagen and non-collagen surfaces. The exposure of neuronal cells to 40 Hz and 100 Hz vibration enhanced cell differentiation. The 40 Hz vibration has the best impact on neuronal-like cell growth and differentiation. (4) Conclusions: The data demonstrated that exposure to neuronal cells to 40 Hz and 100 Hz vibration enhanced cell differentiation and proliferation. This positive impact of vibration can be used in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. It is planned to optimize the processes and study its molecular mechanisms concerning carrying out the research.	Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Wroclaw Medical University, Mikulicza-Radeckiego 2, 50-345 Wrocław, Poland	10.3390/molecules27103337	2022	27	10	-	-	3337	-
Balbi, Matilde; Blackmore, Daniel; Padmanabhan, Pranesh; Götz, Jürgen	Ultrasound-Mediated Bioeffects in Senescent Mice and Alzheimer’s Mouse Models	Brain Sciences	EN	Review	amyloid; long-term potentiation; low-intensity ultrasound; mechanosensory receptor; neurogenesis; neuromodulation; NMDA receptor (NR); senescence; Tau	Ultrasound is routinely used for a wide range of diagnostic imaging applications. However, given that ultrasound can operate over a wide range of parameters that can all be modulated, its applicability extends far beyond the bioimaging field. In fact, the modality has emerged as a hybrid technology that effectively assists drug delivery by transiently opening the blood–brain barrier (BBB) when combined with intravenously injected microbubbles, and facilitates neuromodulation. Studies in aged mice contributed to an insight into how low-intensity ultrasound brings about its neuromodulatory effects, including increased synaptic plasticity and improved cognitive functions, with a potential role for neurogenesis and the modulation of NMDA receptor-mediated neuronal signalling. This work is complemented by studies in mouse models of Alzheimer’s disease (AD), a form of pathological ageing. Here, ultrasound was mainly employed as a BBB-opening tool that clears protein aggregates via microglial activation and neuronal autophagy, thereby restoring cognition. We discuss the currently available ultrasound approaches and how studies in senescent mice are relevant for AD and can accelerate the application of low-intensity ultrasound in the clinic.	Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4072, Australia	10.3390/brainsci12060775	2022	12	6	-	-	775	-
Whitmore, Clayton; Haynes, Justin; Behof, William; Rosenberg, Adam; Tantawy, Mohammed; Hachey, Brian; Wadzinski, Brian; Spiller, Benjamin; Peterson, Todd; Paffenroth, Krista; Harrison, Fiona; Beelman, Robert; Wijesinghe, Printha; Matsubara, Joanne; Pham, Wellington	Longitudinal Consumption of Ergothioneine Reduces Oxidative Stress and Amyloid Plaques and Restores Glucose Metabolism in the 5XFAD Mouse Model of Alzheimer’s Disease	Pharmaceuticals	EN	Article	ergothioneine; ROS; PET; Alzheimer; oxidative stress; 5XFAD	Background: Ergothioneine (ERGO) is a unique antioxidant and a rare amino acid available in fungi and various bacteria but not in higher plants or animals. Substantial research data indicate that ERGO is a physiological antioxidant cytoprotectant. Different from other antioxidants that need to breach the blood–brain barrier to enter the brain parenchyma, a specialized transporter called OCTN1 has been identified for transporting ERGO to the brain. Purpose: To assess whether consumption of ERGO can prevent the progress of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) on young (4-month-old) 5XFAD mice. Methods and materials: Three cohorts of mice were tested in this study, including ERGO-treated 5XFAD, non-treated 5XFAD, and WT mice. After the therapy, the animals went through various behavioral experiments to assess cognition. Then, mice were scanned with PET imaging to evaluate the biomarkers associated with AD using [11C]PIB, [11C]ERGO, and [18F]FDG radioligands. At the end of imaging, the animals went through cardiac perfusion, and the brains were isolated for immunohistology. Results: Young (4-month-old) 5XFAD mice did not show a cognitive deficit, and thus, we observed modest improvement in the treated counterparts. In contrast, the response to therapy was clearly detected at the molecular level. Treating 5XFAD mice with ERGO resulted in reduced amyloid plaques, oxidative stress, and rescued glucose metabolism. Conclusions: Consumption of high amounts of ERGO benefits the brain. ERGO has the potential to prevent AD. This work also demonstrates the power of imaging technology to assess response during therapy.	Vanderbilt University Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN 37232, USA	10.3390/ph15060742	2022	15	6	-	-	742	-
Chen, Shu-Mei; Hsu, Tsung-Chin; Chew, Chee-Ho; Huang, Wan-Ting; Chen, Amanda; Lin, Yung-Feng; Eddarkaoui, Sabiha; Buee, Luc; Chen, Chien-Chung	Microtube Array Membrane Encapsulated Cell Therapy: A Novel Platform Technology Solution for Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	neurodegenerative disease; Alzheimer’s disease (AD); passive immunotherapy; encapsulated cell therapy; microtube array membrane (MTAMs)	Alzheimer’s disease is the most frequent form of dementia in aging population and is presently the world’s sixth largest cause of mortality. With the advancement of therapies, several solutions have been developed such as passive immunotherapy against these misfolded proteins, thereby resulting in the clearance. Within this segment, encapsulated cell therapy (ECT) solutions that utilize antibody releasing cells have been proposed with a multitude of techniques under development. Hence, in this study, we utilized our novel and patented Microtube Array Membranes (MTAMs) as an encapsulating platform system with anti-pTau antibody-secreting hybridoma cells to study the impact of it on Alzheimer’s disease. In vivo results revealed that in the water maze, the mice implanted with hybridoma cell MTAMs intracranially (IN) and subcutaneously (SC) showed improvement in the time spent the goal quadrant and escape latency. In passive avoidance, hybridoma cell loaded MTAMs (IN and SC) performed significantly well in step-through latency. At the end of treatment, animals with hybridoma cell loaded MTAMs had lower phosphorylated tau (pTau) expression than empty MTAMs had. Combining both experimental results unveiled that the clearance of phosphorylated tau might rescue the cognitive impairment associated with AD.	Department of Surgery, Division of Neurosurgery, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 11031, Taiwan	10.3390/ijms23126855	2022	23	12	-	-	6855	-
Muqaku, Besnik; Oeckl, Patrick	Peptidomic Approaches and Observations in Neurodegenerative Diseases	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	neurodegenerative diseases; peptidomics; cerebrospinal fluid; mass spectrometry	Mass spectrometry (MS), with its immense technological developments over the last two decades, has emerged as an unavoidable technique in analyzing biomolecules such as proteins and peptides. Its multiplexing capability and explorative approach make it a valuable tool for analyzing complex clinical samples concerning biomarker research and investigating pathophysiological mechanisms. Peptides regulate various biological processes, and several of them play a critical role in many disease-related pathological conditions. One important example in neurodegenerative diseases is the accumulation of amyloid-beta peptides (Aβ) in the brain of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) patients. When investigating brain function and brain-related pathologies, such as neurodegenerative diseases, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) represents the most suitable sample because of its direct contact with the brain. In this review, we evaluate publications applying peptidomics analysis to CSF samples, focusing on neurodegenerative diseases. We describe the methodology of peptidomics analysis and give an overview of the achievements of CSF peptidomics over the years. Finally, publications reporting peptides regulated in AD are discussed.	German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE e.V.), 89081 Ulm, Germany	10.3390/ijms23137332	2022	23	13	-	-	7332	-
Szabó, Róbert; Rácz, Csaba; Dulf, Francisc	Bioavailability Improvement Strategies for Icariin and Its Derivates: A Review	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	bioavailability; complex formation; icariin; icariside II; icaritin; micelle; solubility improvement	In recent years, there has been considerable interest in icariin (ICA) and its derivates, icariside II (ICS) and icaritin (ICT), due to their wide range of potential applications in preventing cancer, cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, delaying the effects of Alzheimer’s disease, treating erectile dysfunction, etc. However, their poor water solubility and membrane permeability, resulting in low bioavailability, dampens their potential beneficial effects. In this regard, several strategies have been developed, such as pharmaceutical technologies, structural transformations, and absorption enhancers. All these strategies manage to improve the bioavailability of the above-mentioned flavonoids, thus increasing their concentration in the desired places. This paper focuses on gathering the latest knowledge on strategies to improve bioavailability for enhancing the efficacy of icariin, icariside II, and icaritin. We conclude that there is an opportunity for many further improvements in this field. To the best of our knowledge, no such review articles scoping the bioavailability improvement of icariin and its derivates have been published to date. Therefore, this paper can be a good starting point for all those who want to deepen their understanding of the field.	Department of Environmental and Plant Protection, University of Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Medicine Cluj-Napoca, Calea Mănăştur 3-5, 400372 Cluj-Napoca, Romania	10.3390/ijms23147519	2022	23	14	-	-	7519	-
Kabanova, Anna; Cavani, Elena; Logothetis, Nikos; Eschenko, Oxana	Feasibility of Canine Adenovirus Type 2 (CAV2) Based Vector for the Locus Coeruleus Optogenetic Activation in Non-Transgenic Rats: Implications for Functional Studies	Brain Sciences	EN	Article	locus coeruleus; optogenetics; channel-rhodopsin; immunohistochemistry; non-transgenic rat; CAV2 virus; norepinephrine; retrograde tracing; PRSx8 promoter	The locus coeruleus norepinephrine (LC-NE) system modulates many visceral and cognitive functions, while LC-NE dysfunction leads to neurological and neurodegenerative conditions such as sleep disorders, depression, ADHD, or Alzheimer’s disease. Innovative viral-vector and gene-engineering technology combined with the availability of cell-specific promoters enabled regional targeting and selective control over phenotypically specific populations of neurons. We transduced the LC-NE neurons in adult male rats by delivering the canine adenovirus type 2-based vector carrying the NE-specific promoter PRSx8 and a light-sensitive channelrhodopsin-2 receptor (ChR2) directly in the LC or retrogradely from the LC targets. The highest ChR2 expression level was achieved when the virus was delivered medially to the trigeminal pathway and ~100 μm lateral to the LC. The injections close or directly in the LC compromised the tissue integrity and NE cell phenotype. Retrograde labeling was more optimal given the transduction of projection-selective subpopulations. Our results highlight a limited inference of ChR2 expression from representative cases to the entire population of targeted cells. The actual fraction of manipulated neurons appears most essential for an adequate interpretation of the study outcome. The actual fraction of manipulated neurons appears most essential for an adequate interpretation of the study outcome. Thus, besides the cell-type specificity and the transduction efficiency, the between-subject variability in the proportion of the remaining viral-transduced targeted cell population must be considered in any functional connectivity study.	Department of Physiology of Cognitive Processes, Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, 72076 Tübingen, Germany	10.3390/brainsci12070904	2022	12	7	-	-	904	-
Elliott, Jonathan; Tinsley, Carolyn; Reynolds, Christina; Olson, Randall; Weymann, Kristianna; Au-Yeung, Wan-Tai; Wilkerson, Andrea; Kaye, Jeffrey; Lim, Miranda	Tunable White Light for Elders (TWLITE): A Protocol Demonstrating Feasibility and Acceptability for Deployment, Remote Data Collection, and Analysis of a Home-Based Lighting Intervention in Older Adults	Sensors	EN	Article	protocol; tunable light; sleep; Alzheimer’s; smart living applications	Sleep disturbances are common in older adults and may contribute to disease progression in certain populations (e.g., Alzheimer’s disease). Light therapy is a simple and cost-effective intervention to improve sleep. Primary barriers to light therapy are: (1) poor acceptability of the use of devices, and (2) inflexibility of current devices to deliver beyond a fixed light spectrum and throughout the entirety of the day. However, dynamic, tunable lighting integrated into the native home lighting system can potentially overcome these limitations. Herein, we describe our protocol to implement a whole-home tunable lighting system installed throughout the homes of healthy older adults already enrolled in an existing study with embedded home assessment platforms (Oregon Center for Aging & Technology—ORCATECH). Within ORCATECH, continuous data on room location, activity, sleep, and general health parameters are collected at a minute-to-minute resolution over years of participation. This single-arm longitudinal protocol collected participants’ light usage in addition to ORCATECH outcome measures over a several month period before and after light installation. The protocol was implemented with four subjects living in three ORCATECH homes. Technical/usability challenges and feasibility/acceptability outcomes were explored. The successful implementation of our protocol supports the feasibility of implementing and integrating tunable whole-home lighting systems into an automated home-based assessment platform for continuous data collection of outcome variables, including long-term sleep measures. Challenges and iterative approaches are discussed. This protocol will inform the implementation of future clinical intervention trials using light therapy in patients at risk for developing Alzheimer’s disease and related conditions.	VA Portland Health Care System, Research Service, Portland, OR 97239, USA	10.3390/s22145372	2022	22	14	-	-	5372	-
Dulewicz, Maciej; Kulczyńska-Przybik, Agnieszka; Mroczko, Piotr; Kornhuber, Johannes; Lewczuk, Piotr; Mroczko, Barbara	Biomarkers for the Diagnosis of Alzheimer’s Disease in Clinical Practice: The Role of CSF Biomarkers during the Evolution of Diagnostic Criteria	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; biomarkers; clinical and research criteria	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a progressive condition and the most common cause of dementia worldwide. The neuropathological changes characteristic of the disorder can be successfully detected before the development of full-blown AD. Early diagnosis of the disease constitutes a formidable challenge for clinicians. CSF biomarkers are the in vivo evidence of neuropathological changes developing in the brain of dementia patients. Therefore, measurement of their concentrations allows for improved accuracy of clinical diagnosis. Moreover, AD biomarkers may provide an indication of disease stage. Importantly, the CSF biomarkers of AD play a pivotal role in the new diagnostic criteria for the disease, and in the recent biological definition of AD by the National Institute on Aging, NIH and Alzheimer’s Association. Due to the necessity of collecting CSF by lumbar puncture, the procedure seems to be an important issue not only from a medical, but also a legal, viewpoint. Furthermore, recent technological advances may contribute to the automation of AD biomarkers measurement and may result in the establishment of unified cut-off values and reference limits. Moreover, a group of international experts in the field of AD biomarkers have developed a consensus and guidelines on the interpretation of CSF biomarkers in the context of AD diagnosis. Thus, technological advancement and expert recommendations may contribute to a more widespread use of these diagnostic tests in clinical practice to support a diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia due to AD. This review article presents up-to-date data regarding the usefulness of CSF biomarkers in routine clinical practice and in biomarkers research.	Department of Neurodegeneration Diagnostics, Medical University of Bialystok, 15-269 Bialystok, Poland	10.3390/ijms23158598	2022	23	15	-	-	8598	-
Neves, Paulo; Simões, João; Costa, Ricardo; Pimenta, Luís; Gonçalves, Norberto; Albuquerque, Carlos; Cunha, Carlos; Zdravevski, Eftim; Lameski, Petre; Garcia, Nuno; Pires, Ivan	Thought on Food: A Systematic Review of Current Approaches and Challenges for Food Intake Detection	Sensors	EN	Review	food intake detection; biosensors; neural networks; image processing; nutrition	Nowadays, individuals have very stressful lifestyles, affecting their nutritional habits. In the early stages of life, teenagers begin to exhibit bad habits and inadequate nutrition. Likewise, other people with dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, or other conditions may not take food or medicine regularly. Therefore, the ability to monitor could be beneficial for them and for the doctors that can analyze the patterns of eating habits and their correlation with overall health. Many sensors help accurately detect food intake episodes, including electrogastrography, cameras, microphones, and inertial sensors. Accurate detection may provide better control to enable healthy nutrition habits. This paper presents a systematic review of the use of technology for food intake detection, focusing on the different sensors and methodologies used. The search was performed with a Natural Language Processing (NLP) framework that helps screen irrelevant studies while following the PRISMA methodology. It automatically searched and filtered the research studies in different databases, including PubMed, Springer, ACM, IEEE Xplore, MDPI, and Elsevier. Then, the manual analysis selected 30 papers based on the results of the framework for further analysis, which support the interest in using sensors for food intake detection and nutrition assessment. The mainly used sensors are cameras, inertial, and acoustic sensors that handle the recognition of food intake episodes with artificial intelligence techniques. This research identifies the most used sensors and data processing methodologies to detect food intake.	School of Technology, Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco, 6000-767 Castelo Branco, Portugal	10.3390/s22176443	2022	22	17	-	-	6443	-
Coelho, Ana; Luís, Inês; Marques, Ana; Pessoa, Cláudia; Daccak, Diana; Silva, Maria; Simões, Manuela; Reboredo, Fernando; Pessoa, Maria; Legoinha, Paulo; Galhano, Carlos; Regato, Mariana; Regato, José; Dias, João; Beja, Nuno; Guerreiro, Idália; Ramalho, José; Campos, Paula; Pais, Isabel; Semedo, José; Lidon, Fernando	Mineral Interaction in Biofortified Tomatoes (Lycopersicum esculentum L.) with Magnesium	Biology and Life Sciences Forum	EN	Proceeding Paper	biofortification; H1534 variety; Lycopersicum esculentum L.; mineral interaction; natural enrichment with magnesium	Magnesium is considered an essential nutrient for humans, where about 60% of Mg plays an important role in skeletal development. However, its deficiency can trigger several health pathologies (namely, asthma, Alzheimer’s disease, hypertension, and type-2 diabetes). In plants, Mg is especially important, being involved in protein synthesis and correlated with chlorophyll pigments. Its deficiency can compromise photosynthesis and can also lead to shorter roots and necrotic zones in leaves. Mineral deficiency (namely, Mg) in plants can lead to a global problem considering the increase in human population and the need to produce more food that nutritionally meets human needs, being necessary to adopt new technology and approaches. In this context, this study aimed to understand the mineral interactions with Mg biofortification in Lycopersicum esculentum (H1534 variety). Biofortification was promoted during the life cycle of the culture throughout six leaf applications with four concentrations (4%, 8%, 12%, and 16%) of MgSO4, equivalent to 702, 1404, 2106, and 2808 g.ha−1. At harvest, 4% MgSO4 treatment showed the highest content of Mg and P and the lowest content of Fe and Zn. Additionally, the highest treatment showed the lowest content of Mg and, on the other hand, the highest content of Fe. In conclusion, despite the synergistic and antagonistic relationships between minerals in the different concentrations of Mg applied, there were no significant changes in total soluble solids content in the fruits.	Earth Sciences Department, Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, 2829-516 Caparica, Portugal	10.3390/IECHo2022-12509	2022	16	1	-	-	16	-
Wuli, Wei; Lin, Shinn-Zong; Chen, Shee-Ping; Tannous, Bakhos; Huang, Wen-Sheng; Woon, Peng; Wu, Yang-Chang; Yang, Hsueh-Hui; Chen, Yi-Cheng; Fleming, Renata; Rogers, Jack; Cahill, Catherine; Ho, Tsung-Jung; Chiou, Tzyy-Wen; Harn, Horng-Jyh	Targeting PSEN1 by lnc-CYP3A43-2/miR-29b-2-5p to Reduce β Amyloid Plaque Formation and Improve Cognition Function	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	n-butylidenephthalide; Alzheimer’s disease; miR-29b-2-5p; Presenilin1; β-amyloid plaque	Presenilin-1 (PSEN1) is a crucial subunit within the γ-secretase complex and regulates β-amyloid (Aβ) production. Accumulated evidence indicates that n-butylidenephthalide (BP) acts effectively to reduce Aβ levels in neuronal cells that are derived from trisomy 21 (Ts21) induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). However, the mechanism underlying this effect remains unclear. This article aims to investigate the possible mechanisms through which BP ameliorates the development of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and verify the effectiveness of BP through animal experiments. Results from RNA microarray analysis showed that BP treatment in Ts21 iPSC-derived neuronal cells reduced long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) CYP3A43-2 levels and increased microRNA (miR)-29b-2-5p levels. Bioinformatics tool prediction analysis, biotin-labeled miR-29b-2-5p pull-down assay, and dual-luciferase reporter assay confirmed a direct negative regulatory effect for miRNA29b-2-5p on lnc-RNA-CYP3A43-2 and PSEN1. Moreover, BP administration improved short-term memory and significantly reduced Aβ accumulation in the hippocampus and cortex of 3xTg-AD mice but failed in miR-29b-2-5p mutant mice generated by CRISP/Cas9 technology. In addition, analysis of brain samples from patients with AD showed a decrease in microRNA-29b-2-5p expression in the frontal cortex region. Our results provide evidence that the LncCYP3A43-2/miR29-2-5p/PSEN1 network might be involved in the molecular mechanisms underlying BP-induced Aβ reduction.	Bioinnovation Center, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, Hualien 97002, Taiwan	10.3390/ijms231810554	2022	23	18	-	-	10554	-
Wang, Jiuhai; Gu, Yutian; Liu, Xu; Fan, Yadi; Zhang, Yu; Yi, Changqing; Cheng, Changming; Yang, Mo	Near-Infrared Photothermally Enhanced Photo-Oxygenation for Inhibition of Amyloid-β Aggregation Based on RVG-Conjugated Porphyrinic Metal–Organic Framework and Indocyanine Green Nanoplatform	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	amyloid-β; neurodegenerative diseases; central nervous system (CNS); Alzheimer’s disease; metal–organic framework; near-infrared phototherapy; brain-targeting; photo-oxygenation; porphyrinic nanoparticles	Amyloid aggregation is associated with many neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD). The current technologies using phototherapy for amyloid inhibition are usually photodynamic approaches based on evidence that reactive oxygen species can inhibit Aβ aggregation. Herein, we report a novel combinational photothermally assisted photo-oxygenation treatment based on a nano-platform of the brain-targeting peptide RVG conjugated with the 2D porphyrinic PCN−222 metal–organic framework and indocyanine green (PCN−222@ICG@RVG) with enhanced photo-inhibition in Alzheimer’s Aβ aggregation. A photothermally assisted photo-oxygenation treatment based on PCN@ICG could largely enhance the photo-inhibition effect on Aβ42 aggregation and lead to much lower neurotoxicity upon near-infrared (NIR) irradiation at 808 nm compared with a single modality of photo-treatment in both cell-free and in vitro experiments. Generally, local photothermal heat increases the instability of Aβ aggregates and keeps Aβ in the status of monomers, which facilitates the photo-oxygenation process of generating oxidized Aβ monomers with low aggregation capability. In addition, combined with the brain-targeting peptide RVG, the PCN−222@ICG@RVG nanoprobe shows high permeability of the human blood–brain barrier (BBB) on a human brain-on-a-chip platform. The ex vivo study also demonstrates that NIR-activated PCN−222@ICG@RVG could efficiently dissemble Aβ plaques. Our work suggests that the combination of photothermal treatment with photo-oxygenation can synergistically enhance the inhibition of Aβ aggregation, which may boost NIR-based combinational phototherapy of AD in the future.	Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong 999077, China	10.3390/ijms231810885	2022	23	18	-	-	10885	-
Alouani, Ali; Elfouly, Tarek	Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) Detection: Past, Present, and Future	Biomedicines	EN	Review	traumatic brain injury; neuroimaging; electroencephalography; preprocessing; artifacts removal; detection; artificial intelligence	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can produce temporary biochemical imbalance due to leaks through cell membranes or disruption of the axoplasmic flow due to the misalignment of intracellular neurofilaments. If untreated, TBI can lead to Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, or total disability. Mild TBI (mTBI) accounts for about about 90 percent of all TBI cases. The detection of TBI as soon as it happens is crucial for successful treatment management. Neuroimaging-based tests provide only a structural and functional mapping of the brain with poor temporal resolution. Such tests may not detect mTBI. On the other hand, the electroencephalogram (EEG) provides good spatial resolution and excellent temporal resolution of the brain activities beside its portability and low cost. The objective of this paper is to provide clinicians and scientists with a one-stop source of information to quickly learn about the different technologies used for TBI detection, their advantages and limitations. Our research led us to conclude that even though EEG-based TBI detection is potentially a powerful technology, it is currently not able to detect the presence of a mTBI with high confidence. The focus of the paper is to review existing approaches and provide the reason for the unsuccessful state of EEG-based detection of mTBI.	Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, College of Engineering, Tennessee Technological University, Cookeville, TN 38505, USA	10.3390/biomedicines10102472	2022	10	10	-	-	2472	-
Wu, Qian; Naeem, Abid; Zou, Jiamei; Yu, Chengqun; Wang, Yingjie; Chen, Jingbin; Ping, Yuhui	Isolation of Phenolic Compounds from Raspberry Based on Molecular Imprinting Techniques and Investigation of Their Anti-Alzheimer’s Disease Properties	Molecules	EN	Article	UPLC-Q-TOF-MS; molecular imprinting; raspberry; phenolic components; solid phase extraction; molecular docking; neuroinflammation	Alzheimer’s disease is the most common neurodegenerative disease, characterized by memory loss and cognitive dysfunction. Raspberry fruits contain polyphenols which have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. In this study, we used molecular imprinting technology to efficiently isolate phenolic components from the raspberry ethyl acetate extracts. Six phenolic components (ellagic acid, tiliroside, kaempferol-3-o-rutoside, gallic acid, ferulic acid and vanillic acid) were identified by UPLC-Q-TOF-MS analysis. Molecular docking was used to predict the anti-inflammatory effects and anti-Alzheimer’s potential of these isolated compounds, which showed a good binding ability to diseases and related proteins. However, the binding energy and docking fraction of ellagic acid, tiliroside, and kaempferol-3-o-rutoside were better than those of gallic acid, ferulic acid and vanillic acid. Additionally, by studying the effects of these six phenolic components on the LPS-induced secretion of inflammatory mediators in murine microglial (BV2) cells, it was further demonstrated that they were all capable of inhibiting the secretion of NO, IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β to a certain extent. However, ellagic acid, tiliroside, and kaempferol-3-o-rutoside have better inhibitory effects compared to others. The results obtained suggest that the phenolic components extracted from ethyl acetate extracts of raspberry by molecularly imprinted polymers have the potential to inhibit the progression of Alzheimer’s disease.	College of Pharmacy, Jiangxi University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1688 Meiling Avenue, Nanchang 330004, China	10.3390/molecules27206893	2022	27	20	-	-	6893	-
Thabtah, Fadi; Ong, Swan; Peebles, David	Examining Cognitive Factors for Alzheimer’s Disease Progression Using Computational Intelligence	Healthcare	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s Disease (AD); clinical informatics; cognitive informatics; classification; dementia; machine learning; neuropsychological assessments	Prognosis of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) progression has been recognized as a challenging problem due to the massive numbers of cognitive, and pathological features recorded for patients and controls. While there have been many studies investigated the diagnosis of dementia using pathological characteristics, predicting the advancement of the disease using cognitive elements has not been heavily studied particularly using technologies like artificial intelligence and machine learning. This research aims at evaluating items of the Alzheimer’s Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive 13 (ADAS-Cog-13) test to determine key cognitive items that influence the progression of AD. A methodology that consists of machine learning and feature selection (FS) techniques was designed, implemented, and then tested against real data observations (cases and controls) of the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) repository with a narrow scope on cognitive items of the ADAS-Cog-13 test. Results obtained by ten-fold cross validation and using dissimilar classification and FS techniques revealed that the decision tree algorithm produced classification models with the best performing results from the cognitive items. For ADAS-Cog-13 test, memory and learning features including word recall, delayed word recall and word recognition were the key items pinpointing to AD advancement. When these three cognitive items are processed excluding demographics by C4.5 algorithm the models derived showed 82.90% accuracy, 87.60% sensitivity and 78.20% specificity.	ASDTests, Auckland 0610, New Zealand	10.3390/healthcare10102045	2022	10	10	-	-	2045	-
Su, Ming-Tsan; Lu, Chen-Wen; Wu, Wen-Jhen; Jheng, Yong-Sin; Yang, Shieh-Yueh; Chuang, Wu-Chang; Lee, Ming-Chung; Wu, Chung-Hsin	Applications of Immunomagnetic Reduction Technology as a Biosensor in Therapeutic Evaluation of Chinese Herbal Medicine in Tauopathy Alleviation of an AD Drosophila Model	Biosensors	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; tauopathy; immunomagnetic reduction; traditional herbal medicine; Drosophila melanogaster	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. The most convincing biomarkers in the blood for AD are currently β-amyloid (Aβ) and Tau protein because amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are pathological hallmarks in the brains of patients with AD. The development of assay technologies in diagnosing early-stage AD is very important. The study of human AD subjects is hindered by ethical and technical limitations. Thus, many studies have therefore turned to AD animal models, such as Drosophila melanogaster, to explore AD pathology. However, AD biomarkers such as Aβ and p-Tau protein in Drosophilamelanogaster occur at extremely low levels and are difficult to detect precisely. In this study, we applied the immunomagnetic reduction (IMR) technology of nanoparticles for the detection of p-Tau expressions in hTauR406W flies, an AD Drosophila model. Furthermore, we used IMR technology as a biosensor in the therapeutic evaluation of Chinese herbal medicines in hTauR406W flies with Tau-induced toxicity. To uncover the pathogenic pathway and identify therapeutic interventions of Chinese herbal medicines in Tau-induced toxicity, we modeled tauopathy in the notum of hTauR406W flies. Our IMR data showed that the selected Chinese herbal medicines can significantly reduce p-Tau expressions in hTauR406W flies. Using evidence of notal bristle quantification and Western blotting analysis, we confirmed the validity of the IMR data. Thus, we suggest that IMR can serve as a new tool for measuring tauopathy and therapeutic evaluation of Chinese herbal medicine in an AD Drosophila model.	School of Life Science, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 11677, Taiwan	10.3390/bios12100883	2022	12	10	-	-	883	-
Li, Xinrong; Chen, Shih-Chi; Ip, Jacque	Diverse and Composite Roles of miRNA in Non-Neuronal Cells and Neuronal Synapses in Alzheimer’s Disease	Biomolecules	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; microRNA; astrocyte; microglia; cerebrovasculature; synapse	Neurons interact with astrocytes, microglia, and vascular cells. These interactions become unbalanced in disease states, resulting in damage to neurons and synapses, and contributing to cognitive impairment. Importantly, synaptic loss and synaptic dysfunction have been considered for years as a main pathological factor of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Recently, miRNAs have emerged as essential regulators of physiological and pathological processes in the brain. Focusing on the role of miRNAs in regulating synaptic functions, as well as different cell types in the brain, offers opportunities for the early prevention, diagnosis, and potential treatment of AD-related cognitive impairment. Here, we review the recent research conducted on miRNAs regulating astrocytes, microglia, cerebrovasculature, and synaptic functions in the context of AD-related cognitive impairment. We also review potential miRNA-related biomarkers and therapeutics, as well as emerging imaging technologies relevant for AD research.	Department of Biomedical Engineering, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 999077, China	10.3390/biom12101505	2022	12	10	-	-	1505	-
Sterling, Kathryn; Dodd, Griffin; Alhamdi, Shatha; Asimenios, Peter; Dagda, Ruben; De Meirleir, Kenny; Hudig, Dorothy; Lombardi, Vincent	Mucosal Immunity and the Gut-Microbiota-Brain-Axis in Neuroimmune Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	sIgA; Alzheimer’s disease; autism; microbiome; mucosal immunity; myalgic encephalomyelitis; Parkinson’s disease; multiple sclerosis; Huntington’s disease	Recent advances in next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies have opened the door to a wellspring of information regarding the composition of the gut microbiota. Leveraging NGS technology, early metagenomic studies revealed that several diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, autism, and myalgic encephalomyelitis, are characterized by alterations in the diversity of gut-associated microbes. More recently, interest has shifted toward understanding how these microbes impact their host, with a special emphasis on their interactions with the brain. Such interactions typically occur either systemically, through the production of small molecules in the gut that are released into circulation, or through signaling via the vagus nerves which directly connect the enteric nervous system to the central nervous system. Collectively, this system of communication is now commonly referred to as the gut-microbiota-brain axis. While equally important, little attention has focused on the causes of the alterations in the composition of gut microbiota. Although several factors can contribute, mucosal immunity plays a significant role in shaping the microbiota in both healthy individuals and in association with several diseases. The purpose of this review is to provide a brief overview of the components of mucosal immunity that impact the gut microbiota and then discuss how altered immunological conditions may shape the gut microbiota and consequently affect neuroimmune diseases, using a select group of common neuroimmune diseases as examples.	Department of Biology, University of Nevada, Reno, NV 89557, USA	10.3390/ijms232113328	2022	23	21	-	-	13328	-
Lo, Chih	Heterogeneous Tau Oligomers as Molecular Targets for Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Tauopathies	Biophysica	EN	Review	tau oligomers and aggregates; cellular and pathological heterogeneity; neurotoxicity; conformational ensembles; protein-protein interaction; molecular diversity; drug discovery; small molecules; biosensor; neurodegenerative diseases	Tauopathies, including Alzheimer’s disease (AD), are a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by pathological aggregation of microtubule binding protein tau. The presence of tau neurofibrillary tangles, which are insoluble β-sheet fibrils, in the brain has been the histopathological hallmark of these diseases as their level correlates with the degree of cognitive impairment. However, recent studies suggest that tau oligomers, which are soluble proteins that are formed prior to insoluble fibrils, are the principal toxic species impairing neurons and inducing neurodegeneration. Targeting toxic tau oligomers is challenging, as they are mostly unstructured and adopting multiple conformations. The heterogeneity of tau oligomers is further illustrated by the different oligomeric species formed by various methods. The current models and technologies to study tau oligomerization represent important resources and avenues to push the forefront of elucidating the true toxic tau species. In this review, we will summarize the distinct tau oligomers generated using different strategies and discuss their conformational characteristics, neurotoxicity, relevance to pathological phenotypes, as well as their applications in drug discovery. This information will provide insights to understanding heterogeneous tau oligomers and their role as molecular targets for AD and related tauopathies.	Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 308232, Singapore	10.3390/biophysica2040039	2022	2	4	-	-	39	-
Wu, Xiaosheng; Gao, Shuangshuang; Sun, Junding; Zhang, Yudong; Wang, Shuihua	Classification of Alzheimer’s Disease Based on Weakly Supervised Learning and Attention Mechanism	Brain Sciences	EN	Article	weakly supervised; attention module; classification; data augmentation	The brain lesions images of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) patients are slightly different from the Magnetic Resonance Imaging of normal people, and the classification effect of general image recognition technology is not ideal. Alzheimer’s datasets are small, making it difficult to train large-scale neural networks. In this paper, we propose a network model (WS-AMN) that fuses weak supervision and an attention mechanism. The weakly supervised data augmentation network is used as the basic model, the attention map generated by weakly supervised learning is used to guide the data augmentation, and an attention module with channel domain and spatial domain is embedded in the residual network to focus on the distinctive channels and spaces of images respectively. The location information enhances the corresponding features of related features and suppresses the influence of irrelevant features.The results show that the F1-score is 99.63%, the accuracy is 99.61%. Our model provides a high-performance solution for accurate classification of AD.	School of Computer Science and Technology, Henan Polytechnic University, Jiaozuo 454000, China	10.3390/brainsci12121601	2022	12	12	-	-	1601	-
Hemmati, Shiva; Rasekhi Kazerooni, Haniyeh	Polypharmacological Cell-Penetrating Peptides from Venomous Marine Animals Based on Immunomodulating, Antimicrobial, and Anticancer Properties	Marine Drugs	EN	Article	adjuvant; anticancer peptide; antigen-presenting cell; antimicrobial peptide; artificial intelligence; biofilm; immunotherapy; immune checkpoint; PDL-1 inhibitor; vaccination	Complex pathological diseases, such as cancer, infection, and Alzheimer’s, need to be targeted by multipronged curative. Various omics technologies, with a high rate of data generation, demand artificial intelligence to translate these data into druggable targets. In this study, 82 marine venomous animal species were retrieved, and 3505 cryptic cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) were identified in their toxins. A total of 279 safe peptides were further analyzed for antimicrobial, anticancer, and immunomodulatory characteristics. Protease-resistant CPPs with endosomal-escape ability in Hydrophis hardwickii, nuclear-localizing peptides in Scorpaena plumieri, and mitochondrial-targeting peptides from Synanceia horrida were suitable for compartmental drug delivery. A broad-spectrum S. horrida-derived antimicrobial peptide with a high binding-affinity to bacterial membranes was an antigen-presenting cell (APC) stimulator that primes cytokine release and naïve T-cell maturation simultaneously. While antibiofilm and wound-healing peptides were detected in Synanceia verrucosa, APC epitopes as universal adjuvants for antiviral vaccination were in Pterois volitans and Conus monile. Conus pennaceus-derived anticancer peptides showed antiangiogenic and IL-2-inducing properties with moderate BBB-permeation and were defined to be a tumor-homing peptide (THP) with the ability to inhibit programmed death ligand-1 (PDL-1). Isoforms of RGD-containing peptides with innate antiangiogenic characteristics were in Conus tessulatus for tumor targeting. Inhibitors of neuropilin-1 in C. pennaceus are proposed for imaging probes or therapeutic delivery. A Conus betulinus cryptic peptide, with BBB-permeation, mitochondrial-targeting, and antioxidant capacity, was a stimulator of anti-inflammatory cytokines and non-inducer of proinflammation proposed for Alzheimer’s. Conclusively, we have considered the dynamic interaction of cells, their microenvironment, and proportional-orchestrating-host- immune pathways by multi-target-directed CPPs resembling single-molecule polypharmacology. This strategy might fill the therapeutic gap in complex resistant disorders and increase the candidates’ clinical-translation chance.	Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz 71345-1583, Iran	10.3390/md20120763	2022	20	12	-	-	763	-
Srinivasu, Parvathaneni; Shafi, Jana; Krishna, T; Sujatha, Canavoy; Praveen, S; Ijaz, Muhammad	Using Recurrent Neural Networks for Predicting Type-2 Diabetes from Genomic and Tabular Data	Diagnostics	EN	Article	deep learning; PIMA dataset; Type-2 diabetes; Recurrent Neural Networks; weight optimization	The development of genomic technology for smart diagnosis and therapies for various diseases has lately been the most demanding area for computer-aided diagnostic and treatment research. Exponential breakthroughs in artificial intelligence and machine intelligence technologies could pave the way for identifying challenges afflicting the healthcare industry. Genomics is paving the way for predicting future illnesses, including cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, and diabetes. Machine learning advancements have expedited the pace of biomedical informatics research and inspired new branches of computational biology. Furthermore, knowing gene relationships has resulted in developing more accurate models that can effectively detect patterns in vast volumes of data, making classification models important in various domains. Recurrent Neural Network models have a memory that allows them to quickly remember knowledge from previous cycles and process genetic data. The present work focuses on type 2 diabetes prediction using gene sequences derived from genomic DNA fragments through automated feature selection and feature extraction procedures for matching gene patterns with training data. The suggested model was tested using tabular data to predict type 2 diabetes based on several parameters. The performance of neural networks incorporating Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) components, Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), and Gated Recurrent Units (GRU) was tested in this research. The model’s efficiency is assessed using the evaluation metrics such as Sensitivity, Specificity, Accuracy, F1-Score, and Mathews Correlation Coefficient (MCC). The suggested technique predicted future illnesses with fair Accuracy. Furthermore, our research showed that the suggested model could be used in real-world scenarios and that input risk variables from an end-user Android application could be kept and evaluated on a secure remote server.	Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Prasad V. Potluri Siddhartha Institute of Technology, Vijayawada 520007, Andhra Pradesh, India	10.3390/diagnostics12123067	2022	12	12	-	-	3067	-
Galluzzi, Samantha; Pievani, Michela; Zanetti, Orazio; Benussi, Luisa; The Italian-DIAfN Working Group; Frisoni, Giovanni; Di Maria, Emilio	Disclosure of Genetic Risk Factors for Alzheimer’s Disease to Cognitively Healthy Individuals—From Current Practice towards a Personalised Medicine Scenario	Biomedicines	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; dementia; genetic risk; APOE; genetic testing; genetic counselling; health technology assessment; guidelines; review; Italy	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a genetically complex disorder. In addition to the relatively small number of pathogenic variants causing autosomal dominant AD, many others have been associated with the much more common sporadic form. The E4 allele of the Apolipoprotein E (APOE) is the first discovered genetic risk factor for AD. In addition, more than 70 genetic risk loci contributing to AD have been identified. Current guidelines do not recommend AD susceptibility genetic testing in cognitively healthy adults because the implications for clinical care are limited. However, secondary prevention clinical trials of disease-modifying therapies enrol individuals based on genetic criteria, and participants are often informed of APOE testing results. Moreover, the availability of direct-to-consumer genetic testing allows individuals to learn their own AD genetic risk profile without medical supervision. A number of research protocols for AD susceptibility genetic testing have been proposed. In Italy, disclosure processes and protocols beyond those developed for inherited dementia have not been established yet. We reviewed the literature on the current practice and clinical issues related to disclosing AD genetic risk to cognitively healthy individuals and provide suggestions that may help to develop specific guidelines at the national level.	Laboratory Alzheimer’s Neuroimaging &amp; Epidemiology, IRCCS Istituto Centro San Giovanni di Dio Fatebenefratelli, 25125 Brescia, Italy	10.3390/biomedicines10123177	2022	10	12	-	-	3177	-
Pise, Nikita; Prabhu, Arati; Raheja, Radhika	Forced Degradation Studies on Agents of Therapeutic Interest	Medical Sciences Forum	EN	Abstract	thiophene chalcone; analytical method; forced degradation studies	Chalcones possessing potential anti-Alzheimer’s activity were synthesised in our lab using the Claisen Schmidt reaction. FDS (Forced degradation protocols) protocols in accordance with ICH (International Conference on Harmonization) guidelines were applied to three thiophene chalcones TC1, TC2, and TC3. The method was developed using Thermo Scientific C18 column (Agilent Technologies India Ltd., Mumbai, India 250 × 4.6 mm, 5 µm) as stationary phase and sodium acetate buffer (pH 3.0), with acetonitrile (40:60, v/v; 40:60, v/v; 25:75, v/v, respectively) as the mobile phase at 1 mL/min flow rate and 280 nm as detection wavelength. The developed method was successful in resolving TC1, TC2 and TC3 from its degradation products. TC1, TC2 and TC3 were eluted at a retention time of 10.5 min, 27.4 min and 10.2 min, respectively. HPLC (High Performance Liquid Chromatography) method was developed and validated for the individual untreated molecules and was found to be specific, selective, precise, reproducible, robust and linear in the range of about 5–15 ppm of the working standard concentration. The chalcones were stable under thermal and thermal-humidity stress, but degraded to different extents under acid-and base-catalysed hydrolysis, oxidative stress and photolytic conditions, as seen by HPLC analysis. The degradation of TC1 was studied by LC-MS and predictions of the mechanism of degradation were attempted.	Department of Quality Assurance, SVKM’S Dr. Bhanuben Nanavati College of Pharmacy, Mumbai 400056, India	10.3390/ECMC2022-13233	2022	14	1	-	-	22	-
Bok, Junsoo; Ha, Juchan; Ahn, Bum; Jang, Yongwoo	Disease-Modifying Effects of Non-Invasive Electroceuticals on β-Amyloid Plaques and Tau Tangles for Alzheimer’s Disease	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Review	Alzheimer’s disease; β-amyloid plaque; tau tangle; electroceuticals; electroceutical therapy; electrical stimulation	Electroceuticals refer to various forms of electronic neurostimulators used for therapy. Interdisciplinary advances in medical engineering and science have led to the development of the electroceutical approach, which involves therapeutic agents that specifically target neural circuits, to realize precision therapy for Alzheimer’s disease (AD). To date, extensive studies have attempted to elucidate the disease-modifying effects of electroceuticals on areas in the brain of a patient with AD by the use of various physical stimuli, including electric, magnetic, and electromagnetic waves as well as ultrasound. Herein, we review non-invasive stimulatory systems and their effects on β-amyloid plaques and tau tangles, which are pathological molecular markers of AD. Therefore, this review will aid in better understanding the recent technological developments, applicable methods, and therapeutic effects of electronic stimulatory systems, including transcranial direct current stimulation, 40-Hz gamma oscillations, transcranial magnetic stimulation, electromagnetic field stimulation, infrared light stimulation and ionizing radiation therapy, and focused ultrasound for AD.	Department of Medical and Digital Engineering, College of Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul 04736, Republic of Korea	10.3390/ijms24010679	2022	24	1	-	-	679	-
Prieto-Avalos, Guillermo; Sánchez-Morales, Laura; Alor-Hernández, Giner; Sánchez-Cervantes, José	A Review of Commercial and Non-Commercial Wearables Devices for Monitoring Motor Impairments Caused by Neurodegenerative Diseases	Biosensors	EN	Review	neurodegenerative diseases; monitoring; sensors; wearables	Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are among the 10 causes of death worldwide. The effects of NDDs, including irreversible motor impairments, have an impact not only on patients themselves but also on their families and social environments. One strategy to mitigate the pain of NDDs is to early identify and remotely monitor related motor impairments using wearable devices. Technological progress has contributed to reducing the hardware complexity of mobile devices while simultaneously improving their efficiency in terms of data collection and processing and energy consumption. However, perhaps the greatest challenges of current mobile devices are to successfully manage the security and privacy of patient medical data and maintain reasonable costs with respect to the traditional patient consultation scheme. In this work, we conclude: (1) Falls are most monitored for Parkinson’s disease, while tremors predominate in epilepsy and Alzheimer’s disease. These findings will provide guidance for wearable device manufacturers to strengthen areas of opportunity that need to be addressed, and (2) Of the total universe of commercial wearables devices that are available on the market, only a few have FDA approval, which means that there is a large number of devices that do not safeguard the integrity of the users who use them.	Tecnológico Nacional de México/I.T. Orizaba, Av. Oriente 9 No. 852 Col. Emiliano Zapata, Orizaba 94320, Veracruz, Mexico	10.3390/bios13010072	2022	13	1	-	-	72	-
Peimankar, Abdolrahman; Winther, Trine; Ebrahimi, Ali; Wiil, Uffe	A Machine Learning Approach for Walking Classification in Elderly People with Gait Disorders	Sensors	EN	Article	accelerometer; elderly population; gait disorders; healthcare monitoring; machine learning; medical AI	Walking ability of elderly individuals, who suffer from walking difficulties, is limited, which restricts their mobility independence. The physical health and well-being of the elderly population are affected by their level of physical activity. Therefore, monitoring daily activities can help improve the quality of life. This becomes especially a huge challenge for those, who suffer from dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. Thus, it is of great importance for personnel in care homes/rehabilitation centers to monitor their daily activities and progress. Unlike normal subjects, it is required to place the sensor on the back of this group of patients, which makes it even more challenging to detect walking from other activities. With the latest advancements in the field of health sensing and sensor technology, a huge amount of accelerometer data can be easily collected. In this study, a Machine Learning (ML) based algorithm was developed to analyze the accelerometer data collected from patients with walking difficulties, who live in one of the municipalities in Denmark. The ML algorithm is capable of accurately classifying the walking activity of these individuals with different walking abnormalities. Various statistical, temporal, and spectral features were extracted from the time series data collected using an accelerometer sensor placed on the back of the participants. The back sensor placement is desirable in patients with dementia and Alzheimer’s disease since they may remove visible sensors to them due to the nature of their diseases. Then, an evolutionary optimization algorithm called Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) was used to select a subset of features to be used in the classification step. Four different ML classifiers such as k-Nearest Neighbors (kNN), Random Forest (RF), Stacking Classifier (Stack), and Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGB) were trained and compared on an accelerometry dataset consisting of 20 participants. These models were evaluated using the leave-one-group-out cross-validation (LOGO-CV) technique. The Stack model achieved the best performance with average sensitivity, positive predictive values (precision), F1-score, and accuracy of 86.85%, 93.25%, 88.81%, and 93.32%, respectively, to classify walking episodes. In general, the empirical results confirmed that the proposed models are capable of classifying the walking episodes despite the challenging sensor placement on the back of the patients, who suffer from walking disabilities.	Centre of Health Informatics and Technology, The Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller Institute, University of Southern Denmark, 5230 Odense, Denmark	10.3390/s23020679	2023	23	2	-	-	679	-
Álvarez-Sánchez, Lourdes; Peña-Bautista, Carmen; Ferré-González, Laura; Balaguer, Angel; Baquero, Miguel; Casanova-Estruch, Bonaventura; Cháfer-Pericás, Consuelo	Assessment of Plasma and Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers in Different Stages of Alzheimer’s Disease and Frontotemporal Dementia	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	Alzheimer’s disease; frontotemporal dementia; plasma; biomarker; SIMOA; diagnosis	Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the primary type of dementia, followed by frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). They share some clinical characteristics, mainly at the early stages. So, the identification of early, specific, and minimally invasive biomarkers is required. In this study, some plasma biomarkers (Amyloid β42, p-Tau181, t-Tau, neurofilament light (NfL), TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43)) were determined by single molecule array technology (SIMOA®) in control subjects (n = 22), mild cognitive impairment due to AD (MCI-AD, n = 33), mild dementia due to AD (n = 12), and FTLD (n = 11) patients. The correlations between plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels and the accuracy of plasma biomarkers for AD early diagnosis and discriminating from FTLD were analyzed. As result, plasma p-Tau181 and NfL levels correlated with the corresponding CSF levels. Additionally, plasma p-Tau181 showed good accuracy for distinguishing between the controls and AD, as well as discriminating between AD and FTLD. Moreover, plasma NfL could discriminate dementia-AD vs. controls, FTLD vs. controls, and MCI-AD vs. dementia-AD. Therefore, the determination of these biomarkers in plasma is potentially helpful in AD spectrum diagnosis, but also discriminating from FTLD. In addition, the accessibility of these potential early and specific biomarkers may be useful for AD screening protocols in the future.	Alzheimer Disease Research Group, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria La Fe, 46026 Valencia, Spain	10.3390/ijms24021226	2023	24	2	-	-	1226	-
Bhachawat, Saransh; Shriram, Eashwar; Srinivasan, Kathiravan; Hu, Yuh-Chung	Leveraging Computational Intelligence Techniques for Diagnosing Degenerative Nerve Diseases: A Comprehensive Review, Open Challenges, and Future Research Directions	Diagnostics	EN	Review	degenerative nerve diseases; neurodegenerative disorder; machine learning; deep learning; progressive brain diseases; diagnosis	Degenerative nerve diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases have always been a global issue of concern. Approximately 1/6th of the world’s population suffers from these disorders, yet there are no definitive solutions to cure these diseases after the symptoms set in. The best way to treat these disorders is to detect them at an earlier stage. Many of these diseases are genetic; this enables machine learning algorithms to give inferences based on the patient’s medical records and history. Machine learning algorithms such as deep neural networks are also critical for the early identification of degenerative nerve diseases. The significant applications of machine learning and deep learning in early diagnosis and establishing potential therapies for degenerative nerve diseases have motivated us to work on this review paper. Through this review, we covered various machine learning and deep learning algorithms and their application in the diagnosis of degenerative nerve diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease. Furthermore, we also included the recent advancements in each of these models, which improved their capabilities for classifying degenerative nerve diseases. The limitations of each of these methods are also discussed. In the conclusion, we mention open research challenges and various alternative technologies, such as virtual reality and Big data analytics, which can be useful for the diagnosis of degenerative nerve diseases.	School of Computer Science and Engineering, Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore 632014, India	10.3390/diagnostics13020288	2023	13	2	-	-	288	-
Shao, Yijun; Ahmed, Ali; Zamrini, Edward; Cheng, Yan; Goulet, Joseph; Zeng-Treitler, Qing	Enhancing Clinical Data Analysis by Explaining Interaction Effects between Covariates in Deep Neural Network Models	Journal of Personalized Medicine	EN	Article	deep learning; risk analysis; Alzheimer’s disease and related dementia	Deep neural network (DNN) is a powerful technology that is being utilized by a growing number and range of research projects, including disease risk prediction models. One of the key strengths of DNN is its ability to model non-linear relationships, which include covariate interactions. We developed a novel method called interaction scores for measuring the covariate interactions captured by DNN models. As the method is model-agnostic, it can also be applied to other types of machine learning models. It is designed to be a generalization of the coefficient of the interaction term in a logistic regression; hence, its values are easily interpretable. The interaction score can be calculated at both an individual level and population level. The individual-level score provides an individualized explanation for covariate interactions. We applied this method to two simulated datasets and a real-world clinical dataset on Alzheimer’s disease and related dementia (ADRD). We also applied two existing interaction measurement methods to those datasets for comparison. The results on the simulated datasets showed that the interaction score method can explain the underlying interaction effects, there are strong correlations between the population-level interaction scores and the ground truth values, and the individual-level interaction scores vary when the interaction was designed to be non-uniform. Another validation of our new method is that the interactions discovered from the ADRD data included both known and novel relationships.	Department of Clinical Research and Leadership, School of Medicine and Health Sciences, George Washington University, Washington, DC 20037, USA	10.3390/jpm13020217	2023	13	2	-	-	217	-
Sahlgren Bendtsen, Katja; Hall, Vanessa	The Breakthroughs and Caveats of Using Human Pluripotent Stem Cells in Modeling Alzheimer’s Disease	Cells	EN	Review	induced pluripotent stem cells; Alzheimer’s disease; disease modelling; neurons; astrocytes; microglia; drug discovery; APP processing; tau phosphorylation	Modeling Alzheimer’s disease (AD) using human-induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) is a field now spanning 15 years. Developments in the field have shown a shift in using simple 2D cortical neuron models to more advanced tri-cultures and 3D cerebral organoids that recapitulate more features of the disease. This is largely due to development and optimization of new cell protocols. In this review, we highlight recent major breakthroughs in the AD field and the implications this has in modeling AD using iPSCs (AD-iPSCs). To date, AD-iPSCs have been largely used to recapitulate and study impaired amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and tau phosphorylation in both familial and sporadic AD. AD-iPSCs have also been studied for varying neuronal and glial dysfunctions. Moreover, they have been useful for discovering new molecular mechanisms, such as identifying proteins that bridge APP processing with tau phosphorylation and for identifying molecular pathways that bridge APP processing dysfunction with impaired cholesterol biosynthesis. Perhaps the greatest use of AD-iPSCs has been in discovering compounds via drug screening, that reduce amyloid beta (Aβ) in neurons, such as the anti-inflammatory compound, cromolyn, and antiparasitic drugs, avermectins. In addition, high content screening using AD-iPSCs has led to the identification of statins that can reduce levels of phosphorylated tau (p-Tau) in neurons. Some of these compounds have made it through to testing in human clinical trials. Improvements in omic technologies including single cell RNA sequencing and proteomics as well as advances in production of iPSC-cerebral organoids and tri-cultures is likely to result in the further discovery of new drugs and treatments for AD. Some caveats remain in the field, including, long experimental conditions to create mature neurons, high costs of media that limit research capabilities, and a lack of reproducibility using current iPSC-cerebral organoid protocols. Despite these current limitations, AD-iPSCs remain an excellent cellular model for studying AD mechanisms and for drug discovery.	Group of Brain Development and Disease, Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Dyrlægevej 100, 1870 Frederiksberg, Denmark	10.3390/cells12030420	2023	12	3	-	-	420	-
Bahado-Singh, Ray; Vishweswaraiah, Sangeetha; Turkoglu, Onur; Graham, Stewart; Radhakrishna, Uppala	Alzheimer’s Precision Neurology: Epigenetics of Cytochrome P450 Genes in Circulating Cell-Free DNA for Disease Prediction and Mechanism	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	EN	Article	cytochrome P450; CYP; DNA methylation; cell-free DNA; Alzheimer’s disease	Precision neurology combines high-throughput technologies and statistical modeling to identify novel disease pathways and predictive biomarkers in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Brain cytochrome P450 (CYP) genes are major regulators of cholesterol, sex hormone, and xenobiotic metabolism, and they could play important roles in neurodegenerative disorders. Increasing evidence suggests that epigenetic factors contribute to AD development. We evaluated cytosine (‘CpG’)-based DNA methylation changes in AD using circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA), to which neuronal cells are known to contribute. We investigated CYP-based mechanisms for AD pathogenesis and epigenetic biomarkers for disease detection. We performed a case–control study using 25 patients with AD and 23 cognitively healthy controls using the cfDNA of CYP genes. We performed a logistic regression analysis using the MetaboAnalyst software computer program and a molecular pathway analysis based on epigenetically altered CYP genes using the Cytoscape program. We identified 130 significantly (false discovery rate correction q-value < 0.05) differentially methylated CpG sites within the CYP genes. The top two differentially methylated genes identified were CYP51A1 and CYP2S1. The significant molecular pathways that were perturbed in AD cfDNA were (i) androgen and estrogen biosynthesis and metabolism, (ii) C21 steroid hormone biosynthesis and metabolism, and (iii) arachidonic acid metabolism. Existing evidence suggests a potential role of each of these biochemical pathways in AD pathogenesis. Next, we randomly divided the study group into discovery and validation sub-sets, each consisting of patients with AD and control patients. Regression models for AD prediction based on CYP CpG methylation markers were developed in the discovery or training group and tested in the independent validation group. The CYP biomarkers achieved a high predictive accuracy. After a 10-fold cross-validation, the combination of cg17852385/cg23101118 + cg14355428/cg22536554 achieved an AUC (95% CI) of 0.928 (0.787~1.00), with 100% sensitivity and 92.3% specificity for AD detection in the discovery group. The performance remained high in the independent validation or test group, achieving an AUC (95% CI) of 0.942 (0.905~0.979) with a 90% sensitivity and specificity. Our findings suggest that the epigenetic modification of CYP genes may play an important role in AD pathogenesis and that circulating CYP-based cfDNA biomarkers have the potential to accurately and non-invasively detect AD.	Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oakland University-William Beaumont School of Medicine, Royal Oak, MI 48309, USA	10.3390/ijms24032876	2023	24	3	-	-	2876	-
